sharing a mountain hut with a cloud

a lonely hut on the mountain-peak towering above a thousand others

one half is occupied by an old monk and the other by a cloud:

last night it was stormy and the cloud was blown away

after all a cloud could not equal the old man's quiet way.

kuei-tsung chih-chih, a monk who lived in a humble hut on lu-shan  rozan

essays in zen buddhism  second series 352

"he aptly gives vent to his appreciation of emptiness the verse is not to be understood as merely describing his solitary hut where he lived in company with clouds." essays in zen buddhism  second series 351-2



carrying water, chopping wood

miraculous power and marvelous activity

drawing water and hewing wood!23

p'ang yn h un, 40-808, a lay disciple of the eighth century, also known as p'ang ch-shih h koji ch-shihkoji is a title of respect for a lay student of ch'an

the way of zen 221 o

23 ch'uan teng lu, 8. the way of zen 133



how wondrous this, how mysterious!

i carry fuel, i draw water. zen and japanese culture 1



how wondrously supernatural,

and how miraculous this!

i draw water, and i carry fuel. essays in zen buddhism  first series 319



supernatural power, wondrous activity  just a matter of

carrying fuel or drawing water. zen words for the heart 5



daily, nothing particular,

only nodding to myself,

nothing to choose, nothing to discard.

no coming, no going,

no person in purple,

blue mountains without a speck of dust.

i exercise occult and subtle power,

carrying water, shouldering firewood.

two zen classics 22-3

"h koji h was his family, koji a title of respect for a lay student of zen studied first with sekit and then with baso, who he succeeded. when he first met sekit, he asked, 'who is he that is independent of all things' before he had finished asking this, sekit covered koji's mouth with his hand. at this koji underwent an experience and expressed himself in the following verse:" two zen classics 22-3



in my daily life there are no other chores than

those that happen to fall into my hands.

nothing i choose, nothing reject.

nowhere is there ado, nowhere a slip.

i have no other emblems of my glory than

the mountains and hills without a spot of dust.

my magical power and spiritual exercise consists in

carrying water and gathering firewood.

p'ang ch-shih the golden age of zen 94, 304 n.5

"ma-tsu's outstanding lay disciple, pang yn" the golden age of zen 94



stillness

the ten directions converging,

each learning to do nothing,

this is the hall of buddha's training

mind's empty, all's finished.

p'ang yn h un two zen classics 23

"when he came to baso he again said, 'who is he that is independent of all things' baso said, 'when you have drunk all the water in the yang-tze river, i will tell you.' at this, koji underwent his great experience and composed another verse:" two zen classics 23



without name and form

well versed in the buddha way,

i go the non-way

without abandoning my

ordinary person's affairs.

the conditioned and

name-and-form,

all are flowers in the sky.

nameless and formless,

i leave birth-and-death.

p'ang yn h un



mind at peace

when the mind is at peace,

the world too is at peace.

nothing real, nothing absent.

not holding on to reality,

not getting stuck in the void,

you are neither holy or wise, just

an ordinary fellow who has completed his work.

p'ang yn h un the enlightened heart 34



being as is

food and clothes sustain

body and life

i advise you to learn

being as is.

when it's time,

i move my hermitage and go,

and there's nothing

to be left behind.

p'ang yn h un



the ultimate attainment

the past is already past.

don't try to regain it.

the present does not stay.

don't try to touch it.

from moment to moment.

the future has not come

don't think about it

beforehand.

whatever comes to the eye,

leave it be.

there are no commandments

to be kept

there's no filth to be cleansed.

with empty mind really

penetrated, the dharmas

have no life.

when you can be like this,

you've completed

the ultimate attainment.

p'ang yn h un



mindfulness

   spring comes with its flowers, autumn with the moon,

   summer with breezes, winter with snow

   when useless things don't stick in the mind,

   that is your best season.

wu-men huai-kai mumon ekai, from wu-men kuan mumonkan case 19

the light inside the dark 9



   the spring flowers, the autumn moon

   summer breezes, winter snow.

   if useless things do not clutter your mind,

   you have the best days of your life.

two zen classics 3



   hundreds of spring flowers the autumnal moon

   a refreshing summer breeze winter snow

   free thy mind of all idle thoughts,

   and for thee how enjoyable every season is!

essays in zen buddhism  first series 349



   hundreds of flowers in the spring, the moon in the autumn,

   a cool breeze in summer and snow in winter

   if there is no vain cloud in your mind

   for you it is a good season.

zen comments on the mumonkan 140



in spring hundreds of flowers,

in summer, refreshing breeze.

in autumn, harvest moon,

in winter, snowflakes accompany you.

if useless things do not hand in your mind,

every season is a good season. zen word, zen calligraphy 9



spring has its hundred flowers,

autumn its moon.

summer has its cooling breezes,

winter its snow.

if you allow no idle concerns

to weight on your heart,

your whole life will be one

perennial good season. the golden age of zen 28-

this source have the 3rd line with a variant character 3rd character: the golden age of zen 324 n.95



the great tao

     daid mugy,                                      the great tao is without form,

     shinri mutai,                                         the absolute is without opposite

     hitoshiku k fud,               it is both empty and unmoving,

     shji no nagare ni arazu   it is not within the flow of samsara

     sangai fush,                                        the three realms do not contain it,

     koraikon ni arazu.               it is not within past, future, or present.

nan-ch'an p'u-yan nansen fugan

the development of chinese zen after the sixth patriarch 58



     the great tao has no form,

     truth has no counterpart,

     it is motionless like the void,

     it does not wander through the samsara of life and death,

     the three worlds do not contain it,

     within it there is neither past, nor present, nor future.

the development of chinese zen after the sixth patriarch 11-2



oneness

o maitreya, o true maitreya!

thou dividest the body into hundreds of thousands of million forms.

thus manifesting thyself to men of the world

but how they are ignorant of thee!

verse attributed to pu-tai hotei, one of the seven gods of luck

essays in zen buddhism  second series 289



shan-hui

something there is, prior to heaven and earth,

without form, without sound, all alone by itself.

it has the power to control all the changing things

yet it changes not in the course of the four seasons.

bodhisattva shan-hui , better known as fu ta-shih 49-

the golden age of zen 254, 322 n.25



shan-hui

        empty-handed, i hold a hoe.

        walking on foot, i ride a buffalo.

              passing over a bridge, i see

              the bridge flow, but not the water.

bodhisattva shan-hui , better known as fu ta-shih 49-

the golden age of zen 254, 322 n.24



        empty-handed i go and yet the spade is in my hands

        i walk on foot, and yet on the back of an ox i am riding:

              when i pass over the bridge,

              lo, the water floweth not, but the bridge doth flow.

essays in zen buddhism  first series 22



beyond this world

     over the crest of the t'ung-hsuan-feng,

     the human world is no more.

     nothing is outside the mind

     and the eye is filled with green mountains.

t'ien-t'ai te-chao tendai tokush 891-92, most prominent disciple of fa-yen hgen, and abbot of a temple on mount t'ung-hsuan-feng .

the golden age of zen 240, 321 n.3



mindfulness

i stroll along the stream up to where it ends.

i sit down watching the clouds as they begin to rise.

wang wei , 99-1 the golden age of zen 21, 323 n.2

"the most favorite lines among the zen masters are wang wei's :" the golden age of zen 21 "i have seen this charming couplet many times in zen literature." the golden age of zen 21-2



oblivion

a bird in a secluded grove sings like a flute.

willows sway gracefully with their golden threads.

the mountain valley grows the quieter as the clouds return.

a breeze brings along the fragrance of the apricot flowers.

for a whole day i have sat here encompassed by peace,

till my mind is cleansed in and out of all cares and idle thoughts.

i wish to tell you how i feel, but words fail me.

if you come to this grove, we can compare notes.

ch'an master fa-yen hgen the golden age of zen 238, 321 n.31



suchness

the wind traverses the vast sky,

clouds emerge from the mountains

feelings of enlightenment and things of the world

are of no concern at all.

zen master keizan jkin 128-1325

from transmission of the light denkroku, chap. 22 transmission of light 9



nan-ch'an's serenity

drinking tea, eating rice,

i pass my time as it comes

looking down at the stream, looking up at the mountains,

how serene and relaxed i feel indeed!

essays in zen buddhism  first series 24

ch'an master nan-ch'an p'u-yan nansen fugan



serenity

at nantai i sit quietly with an incense burning,

one day of rapture, all things are forgotten,

not that mind is stopped and thoughts are put away,

but that there is really nothing to disturb my serenity.

shou-an shuan essays in zen buddhism  first series 349

nan-t'ai nantai



emptiness poem

old p'ang requires nothing in the world:

all is empty with him, even a seat he has not,

for absolute emptiness reigns in his household

how empty indeed it is with no treasures!

when the sun is risen, he walks through emptiness,

when the sun sets, he sleeps in emptiness

sitting in emptiness he sings his empty songs,

and his empty songs reverberate through emptiness:

be not surprised at emptiness so thoroughly empty,

for emptiness is the seat of all the buddhas

and emptiness is not understood by the men of the world,

but emptiness is the real treasure:

if you say there's no emptiness,

you commit grave offence against the buddhas.

p'ang essays in zen buddhism  second series 341

"who flourished in the yan-ho period 80-821 and thereabout, and was a younger contemporary of ma-tsu." essays in zen buddhism  second series 341 n.1



cutting the spring breeze









throughout heaven and earth there is not a piece of ground where a single stick could be inserted

i am glad that all things are void, myself and the world:

honored be the sword, three feet long, wielded by the great yan swordsmen

for it is like cutting a spring breeze in a flash of lightning.

essays in zen buddhism  first series 255 n.2

"tsu-yan 122-128 came to japan when the hj family was in power at kamakura. he established the engakuji monastery, which is one of the chief zen monasteries in japan. while still in china his temple was invaded by soldiers of the yan dynasty, who threatened to kill him, but bukk was immovable and quietly uttered the following verse:" essays in zen buddhism  first series 255 n.2

wu-hseh tsu-yan mugaku sogen also known as fo-kuang kuo-shih bukk kokushi, 122-128

variant character in the last line instead of



there is not a room in the whole universe where one can insert even a single stick

i see the emptiness of all thingsno objects, no persons.

i admire the sword of the great yan40 three feet in length:

when it cuts at all, it is like cutting the spring breeze with a flash of lightning.

zen and japanese culture 201-2

40the mongolian dynasty 120-13 that invaded china and replaced the sung dynasty. zen and japanese culture 202 yan sung



the heaven and earth afford me no shelter at all

i'm glad, unreal are body and soul.

welcome thy weapon, o warrior of yuan! thy trusty steel,

that flashes lightning, cuts the wind of spring, i feel. the spirit of zen 95



wu-hseh tsu-yan's poem is reminiscent of a poem by seng-chao sj, a disciple of kumarajiva, the founder of the san-lun sanron sect of buddhism. on the verge of death by a vagabond's sword, seng-chao expressed his feelings in the following verse:

in body there exists no soul.

the mind is not real at all.

now try on me thy flashing steel,

as if it cuts the wind of spring, i feel. file zenhistory



even the fire is cool

   in the midsummer heat, the gate is closed and we're wearing monk's robes,

   in addition, there are no pines or bamboos shading the rooms and corridors,

   for a peaceful meditation, we need not to go to the mountains and streams

   when thoughts are quieted down, fire itself is cool and refreshing.

ch'an monk tu kou-hao to junkaku

famous poem of t'ang monk and poet tu kou-hao, known as .

suzuki quotes only the last two verses of the poem, as the words of zen master kaisen , abbot of erinji in japan's kai province. these were kaisen's words prior to being burned alive in his temple by soldiers. zen and japanese culture 9

the last verse is used as a saying in japan. shint o mekkyaku sureba, hi mo mata suzushi.



immovable mind

you wish to know the spirit of yung-ming zen

look at the lake in front of the gate.

when the sun shines, it radiates light and brightness,

when the wind comes, there arise ripples and waves.

yung-ming yen-shou ymy enju 904-95 disciple of t'ien-t'ai te-chao tendai tokush 891-92. the golden age of zen 241, 321 n.41

"there is a time for peaceful contemplation there is a time for dynamic action and all the time the lake remains itself." the golden age of zen 241



hsiang-yen's gatha of enlightenment

forgetting all knowledge at one stroke,

i do not need cultivation anymore.

activity expressing the ancient road,

i don't fall into passivity.

everywhere trackless,

conduct beyond sound and form:

the adepts in all places

call this the supreme state.

gth of enlightenment by ch'an master hsiang-yen chih-hsien kygen chikan rational zen 119



one stroke and all is gone,

no need of stratagem or cure

each and every action manifests the ancient way.

my spirit is never downcast,

i leave no tracks behind me,

enlightenment is beyond speech, beyond gesture

those who are emancipated

call it the unsurpassed.

two zen classics 40



one stroke has made me forget all my previous knowledge,

no artificial discipline is at all needed

in every movement i uphold the ancient way,

and never fall into the rut of mere quietism

wherever i walk no traces are left,

and my senses are not fettered by rules of conduct

everywhere those who have attained to the truth,

all declare this to be of highest order.

essays in zen buddhism  first series 243



ichigeki shochi o bzu,      at a single stroke all i'd known was forgotten,

sara ni shchi o karazu.     now there's no further need for cultivation.

the development of chinese zen after the sixth patriarch 18, 4



yen-shou's poem of enlightenment

        something dropped! it is no other thing

             right and left, there is nothing earthy:

             rivers and mountains and the great earth,

             in them all revealed is the body of the dharmarja.

ch'an master yung-ming yen-shou ymy enju 904-95

essays in zen buddhism  first series 250

variant of the line 3

"his realization took place when he heard a bundle of fuel dropping on the ground." essays in zen buddhism  first series 250



chang chiu-ch'en's poem of enlightenment





in a moonlit night on a spring day,

the croak of a frog

pierces through the whole cosmos and turns it into

a single family!

chang chiu-ch'en the golden age of zen 284, 324 n.88

"the upasaka chang chiu-ch'en was pondering a koan when he was in the toilet. suddenly he heard the croak of a frog, and he was awakened, as evidenced by the following lines:" the golden age of zen 284



no-mind

versified questions and replies between t'ang emperor shun-tsung and ch'an master fo-kuang ju-man bukk nyoman:



from where did the buddha come,

to where did the buddha go

if the buddha is still around,

where can be the buddha found            shun-tsung



from non-activity the buddha came

to non-activity the buddha disappeared.

cosmic reality his spiritual body is,

in no-mind the buddha will appear.        ju-man



great mountains, rivers and seas,

heaven and earth, sun and moon.

who says there is no birth and death

for even these meet their end soon.        shun-tsung



birth is also before birth,

death is also before death.

if you have attained no-mind,

naturally there will be nothing left.        ju-man

the complete book of zen 242-3

"emperor soon zong of the tand dynasty asked the zen master ru man, in poetic style:" the complete book of zen 242

in the complete book of zen, the longer verses are used partly to make quatrains. the original verses run as follows the verses used in the above poems are emphasized:

shun-tsung asked:

ju-man replied:



shun-tsung asked:



ju-man replied:





gathas of shen-hsiu and hui-neng

this body is the bodhi-tree,

the soul is like a mirror bright

take heed to keep it always clean,

and let no dust collect on it.                      shen-hsiu



the bodhi is not like the tree,

the mirror bright is nowhere shining

as there is nothing from the first,

where can the dust itself collect           hui-neng



gths of shen-hsiu jinsh and hui-neng en

from hui-neng's platform stra t'an-ching danky,

full title liu-tsu ta-shih fa-pao-t'an-ching rokuso daishi hhdanky

essays in zen buddhism  first series 20, 20



the body is the tree of enlightenment.

the mind is the stand of a bright mirror.

wipe it constantly and with ever-watchful diligence,

to keep it uncontaminated by the worldly dust.           shen-hsiu

the golden age of zen 0, 300 n.4



enlightenment is no tree,

nor is the bright mirror a stand.

since it is not a thing at all,

where could it be contaminated by dust         hui-neng

the golden age of zen 0, 300 n.5



the body is the bodhi tree,                                       bodhi by nature is no tree,

the mind is like a mirror.                            the mirror is inherently formless.

every now and then dust and polish it,  there is originally nothing,

and let no dust settle on it.                                       on what, then, can the dust settle

two zen classics 10-1



the body is like unto the bodhi-tree,                   neither is there bodhi-tree,

and the mind to a mirror bright               nor yet a mirror bright

carefully we cleanse them hour by hour            since in reality all is void,

lest dust should fall upon them.              whereon can the dust fall

the spirit of zen 3



the body is the tree of enlightenment,   enlightenment is basically not a tree,

and the mind like a clear mirror stand  and the clear mirror not a stand.

time and again wipe it diligently,                          fundamentally there is not a single thing

don't let it gather dust.                                  where can dust collect

transmission of light 140-1



the body is the bodhi-tree,                                        bodhi is actually not a tree,

the mind is like the mirror bright.                        the mind not a mirror bright.

clean it diligently every time,                                  buddha nature is always tranquil,

do not ever let dust alight.                                       wherefore can dust alight

the complete book of zen 81



the body is the tree of wisdom,                wisdom never had a tree,

the mind a bright mirror in its stand.                    the bright mirror lacks a stand.

at all times take care to keep it polished,           fundamentally there is not a single thing

never let the dust and grime collect!                     where could the dust and grime collect

zen: tradition and transition 12



japanese readings of the gths:



mi wa kore bodaiju

shin wa meikydai no gotoshi

jiji ni tsutomete fusshiki shite

jin'ai o shite hikashimuru koto nakare   shen-hsiu



bodai moto ju nashi

meiky mo mata dai ni arazu

honrai muichimotsu

dore no sho ni ka jin'ai o hikan   hui-neng



variations of hui-neng's gth in two different manuscripts:

kshji manuscript, kyto           tun-huang tonk manuscript











"according to the tun-huang ms. copy of the platform stra, the third line reads: 'the buddha-nature is ever pure and undefiled' " essays in zen buddhism  second series 4 n.1



gathas of wo-lun and hui-neng

"a monk once made reference to a gth composed by wo-luan which reads as follows:" essays in zen buddhism  first series 225

"hearing this, the sixth patriarch remarked: 'that is no enlightenment but leads one into a state of bondage. listen to my gth:" essays in zen buddhism  first series 225



i, wo-luan, know a device

whereby to blot out all my thoughts:

the objective world no more stirs the mind,

and daily matures my enlightenment!   wo-lun



i, hui-neng, know no device

my thoughts are not suppressed:

the objective world ever stirs the mind,

and what is the use of maturing enlightenment       hui-neng

gths of wo-lun garin and hui-neng en

from hui-neng's t'an-ching essays in zen buddhism  first series 225



wo-lun possesses a special aptitude:

he can cut off all thoughts.

no situation can stir his mind.

the bodhi tree grows daily in him.         wo-lun



hui-neng has no special aptitude:

he does not cut off any thoughts.

his mind responds to all situations.

in what way can the bodhi tree grow  hui-neng

from hui-neng's t'an-ching the golden age of zen 81, 302 n.33



emptiness gnashing its teeth

     buddhas and patriarchs cut to pieces

     the sword is ever kept sharpened.

     where the wheel turns,

     the void gnashes its teeth.

death verse of shh mych , titled dait kokushi, 1282-133

manual of zen buddhism 148

"for many years shuho had been unable to meditate in the full lotus position because of a crippled leg. when he felt death approaching, he broke his leg with his own hands and took the full lotus. then, despite agonizing pain, he wrote his final words and died with the last stroke of the brush." samadhi 41



bright pearl

        there is a bright pearl within me,

        buried for a long time under dust.

        today, the dust is gone and the light radiates,

        shining through all the mountains and rivers.

master yueh of ch'a-ling the golden age of zen 248, 322 n.

master yueh of ch'a-ling "came to his enlightenment when he slipped and fell in crossing a bridge, and that he hit off a very wonderful gatha on the occasion." the golden age of zen 248



        i have one jewel shining bright,

        long buried it was under worldly worries

        this morning the dusty veil is off and restored is its lustre,

        illuminating rivers and mountains and ten thousand things.

essays in zen buddhism  first series 250



        i have one jewel shining bright,

        long buried it was underneath worldly worries

        this morning the dusty veil is off, and restored its lustre,

        illuminating the blue mountains in endless undulations.

essays in zen buddhism  second series 211



between heaven and earth

the spring mountains covered with layers of most variegated colors,

and the spring streams fancifully laden with the reflecting images.

standing by himself between heaven and earth,

facing infinitude of beings.

ch'an master hseh-t'ou ch'ung-hsien secch jken, 980-1052

zen and japanese culture 298



the essence

   one, seven, three, five.

   what you search for cannot be grasped.

   as the night deepens, the moon brightens over the ocean.

   the black dragon's jewel is found in every wave.

                                         looking for the moon, it is here in this wave and the next.

a verse that master hsueh-t'ou ch'ung-hsien wrote for a disciple



one, seven, three, five.

what you search for cannot be grasped.

as the night deepens,

the moon brightens over the ocean.

the black dragon's jewel

is found in every wave.

looking for the moon,

it is here in this wave

and the next.

translated by yasuda joshu roshi and anzan hoshin roshi, from cooking zen, great matter publications. 199



notes

1. ch'an master hsueh-t'ou ch'ung-hsien xuedou zhongxiansecch jken, 980-1052. the second ideogram is a false character usoji. usoji for t'ou: or there is also a newer form of the fourth ideogram: . see the development of chinese zen after the sixth patriarch 39 for the correct ideogram.

2. master hsueh-t'ou gathered the one hundred kan that became the blue cliff records pi-yen lu hekigaroku.

3. the poem is from zen master dgen kigen's 1200-1253 instructions for the head cook tenzo kykun .



huai's poem of enlightenment

one, two, three, four, five, six, seven

yes, many thousand feet high is the mountain peak, and lo, someone stands there on one leg

he has carried away the gem from the dragon's jaws,

and vimalakrti's secrets he holds in one word.

i-huai of t'ien-i essays in zen buddhism  second series 20

"while he was carrying water, the pole suddenly broke, and the incidence gave him the chance to become conscious of the truth hitherto hidden to him. the poem he composed to express the feeling he then had runs as follows:" essays in zen buddhism  second series 20



detached

be detached, be detached!

be thoroughly detached!

what then

the pine is green,

and white is the snow.

author unknown the essentials of zen buddhism 23



















monks sit peacefully among the trees,

ridding themselves of illusion with a calm mind.

quietly realizing enlightenment,

they experience a joy that is beyond that of heaven.

laymen seek fame and profit,

or fine robes, seats, and bedding.

though the joy in getting them is only fleeting,

they are untiring in their quest.

monks, however, beg for food in humble robes,

their daily actions being one with the way.

with their wisdom-eye opened

they realize the essence of the law.

gathering all together to listen

to the countless buddhist teachings,

they leave behind the world of illusion,

quietly enveloped in enlightenment's wisdom.

bodhisattva ngrjuna

from treasury of eyes of true teaching shb genz of dgen

zen master dogen 9-0



light itself

dwell!

you are light itself.

rely on yourself,

do not rely on others.

the dharma is the light,

rely on the dharma.

do not rely on anything other than dharma.

a pali verse zen word, zen calligraphy 31



poem on bodhidharma

poem by lu yu, a famous poet of southern sung dynasty 1131-112. a poem describing bodhidharma's personal philosophy.











others are revolted, i am unmoved.

gripped by desires, i am unmoved.

hearing the wisdom of sages, i am unmoved.

i move only in my own way. muscletendon changing and marrowbrain washing chi kung 24



three mysteries









the three mystical doors and the three essential points

are in actuality hard to divide and distinguish.

if you get the idea, you must forget the words:

this is the simple way to approach the tao.

all phenomena are clearly comprehended in one sentence:

at the feast of double-nine, the chrysanthemums bloom afresh.

ch'an master fen-yang shan-chao funny zensh, 94-1024

the golden age of zen 209-10, 31 n.45



dead man's zazen

while living, one sits up and lies not,

when dead, one lies and sits not

a set of ill-smelling skeleton!

what is the use of toiling and moiling so

a gth by hui-neng, t'an-ching essays in zen buddhism  first series 21



when alive, one keeps sitting without lying down:

when dead, one lies down without sitting up.

in both cases, a set of stinking bones!

what has it to do with the great lesson of life

the golden age of zen 82, 302 n.38



a living man who sits and does not lie down,

a dead man who lies down and does not sit!

after all these are just dirty skeletons. the way of zen 111, 218 hh



the essence

the bamboo shadows are sweeping the stairs,

buy no dust is stirred:

the moonlight penetrates deep in the bottom of the pool,

but no trace is left in the water.

author unknown essays in zen buddhism  first series 352



beyond the gate

     the celestial radiance undimmed,

     the norm lasting for ever more

     for him who entereth this gate,

     no reasoning, no learning.

ch'an master p'ing-t'ien p'u-an heiden fugan

from ching-te record of the transmission of the lamp ching-te ch'uan-teng lu keitoku dentroku, book 9

essays in zen buddhism  second series 101

in ching-te ch'uan-teng lu the first line is



quietitude

here rules an absolute quietness, all doings subside

just a touch, and lo, a roaring thunder-clap!

a noise that shakes the earth, and all silence

the skull is broken to pieces, and awakened i am from the dream!

tu-feng chi-shan's stanza, from chu-hung's biographies of the famous zen masters of ming

essays in zen buddhism  second series 133 n.2



one with it

long seeking it through others,

i was far from reaching it.

now i go by myself

i meet it everywhere.

it is just i myself,

and i am not itself.

understanding this way,

i can be as i am.

ch'an master tung-shan ling-chia tsan rykai, 80-89 two zen classics 2



do not seek from another,

or you will be estranged from self.

i now go on alone,

finding i meet it everywhere.

it now is i,

i now am not it.

one should understand in this way

to merge with suchness as is. transmission of light 38



don't seek from others,

or you'll be estranged from yourself.

i now go on alone

everywhere i encounter it.

it now is me, i now am not it.

one must understand in this way

to merge with being as is. transmission of light 1



a death verse

i rebuke the wind and revile the rain,

i do not know the buddhas and patriarchs

my single activity turns in the twinkling of an eye,

swifter even than a lightning flash.

death verse of zen master nanpo jmy titled dai kokushi , 1235-1308

zen buddhism: a history, japan, 40



old pan kou

old pan kou knows nothing about time

and nothing about space has well.

his life is self-natured and self-sufficient.

he needs to ask for nothing outside of his own being.

the genesis of the world is the exercise of his mind.

when his mind starts to think, the world starts to move.

the world has never been made by any special desing.

neither has an end ever been put to it.

the song of pan kou



contentment

     as the pines grew old and the clouds idled

     he found boundless contentment within himself.

babo, preface to the record of lin-chi lin-chi lu rinzairoku

zen word, zen calligraphy 12



mind and senses

the mind is an organ of thought and objects are set against it:

the two are like marks on the surface of the mirror

              when the dirt is removed, the light begins to shine.

both mind and objects being forgotten, ultimate nature

              reveals itself true.

yung-chia hsan-cheh yka genkaku the essentials of zen buddhism 23



free spirit

every day i'm either in a wine shop or a brothel,

a free-spirited monk who is hard to fathom

my surplice always appears torn and dirty,

but when i patch it, it smells so sweet.

ch'an master tao-chi lust for enlightenment 92



three teachings into one

   with a taoist cap, a buddhist cassock, and a pair of confucian shoes,

   i have harmonized three houses into one big family!

bodhisattva shan-hui , better known as fu ta-shih 49-

the golden age of zen 254, 322 n.23



autumn wind

     asahi matsu

kusaha no tsuyu no

     hodo naki ni

          isogina

          tachizo

nobe no akikaze

on leaf and grass

awaiting the morning sun

the dew melts quickly away.

haste thee not, o autumn wind

who dost now stir in the fields!

a verse on'uta composed by dgen kigen 1200-1253 shortly before his death

zen buddhism: a history, japan, 2



forgetting the self

to learn buddha dharma is to learn the self.

to learn the self is to forget the self.

to forget the self is to become one with

endless dimension, universal mind.

dgen zen word, zen calligraphy 23

"endless dimension, universal mind" is another name for amitbha buddha



this is our world

we eat, excrete, sleep, and get up

this is our world.

all we have to do after that

is to die.

dka way songpoem by zen master ikky sojun the way of zen 12

"in japan, wandering monks are called unsuiliterally, 'cloud and water'as a reminder to be always floating and flowing. ikkyu himself took the moniker kyoun, or 'crazy cloud,' to describe his eccentric, nonconformist style of zen. in japan, the word kyo has connotations of bravery and high intention, of living outside the rules in order to retain the spirit of the rules. he called his collected poems the 'crazy cloud anthology.' " zen sex 148 crazy cloud kyun



selflessness

misery only doth exist, none miserable,

no doer is there naught save the deed is found.

nirvna is, but not the man who seeks it.

the path exists, but not the traveller on it.

visuddhimagga chapt. 1

?
