at crossroads and through streets i begged all day.
my wandering steps have led me to a village shrine.
children come around me, whispering one to another,
the silly priest of last year has returned to play.
2. my walking skirt is short, but my holy gown is long.
2 enraptured, i work for hours my own flesh and bones.
children stop me in a street, and sing loudly to me
a bouncing-ball ballad, beating their hands for joy.
3. once i sought to triumph at a grass-fighting game.
3 i revelled in beating children, one after another,
till evening closed, and i was left alone to view
a perfect moon ascending the cloudless autumn sky.
4. my hair over my ears and my ears big enough for note,
4 my garments are torn to tatters like shredded clouds.
half-awake, half-asleep, i trudge along towards home.
children escort me, some ahead of me, some behind me.
5. day after day, yet at the return of another long day,
5 i take pleasure in playing with the village children.
in my sleeves i always have hid a few bouncing balls.
incompetent otherwise, i luxuriate in spring delight.
. the silk ball in my sleeve pocket is worth my soul.
 its best bouncer, proudly, is no other than myself.
should anyone question me on the secret of the art,
by way of reply: one two three four five six seven.
. all day long i walk through streets, begging for food.
8 at night i sit for meditation below a protruding rock.4 chinese poems
nought else have i but a holy gown and a begging bowl.
this practice as a soft wind from the west i venerate.
8. early, on august the first,
10 i set out to beg in a city.
silver clouds sail with me.
golden winds ring my bells.
at dawn i see the thousand gates and doors thrown open.
at noon i feed my eyes with cool bamboo and basho tree.
east or west, 1 will not pass a single house unvisited,
not even the slimy haunts of drunkards and fishmongers.
straight glances of honest eyes break a pile of swords.
strides of steady feet scorn the heat of boiling water.
long ago the prince of pure eating preached how to beg,
and the beggar of beggars truly acted out his teaching.
since then it is two thousand, seven hundred years and more.
yet am i no less a faithful pupil of the first teacher.
therefore 1 beg, a bowl in my hands, a gown on my back.
have you not read or heard
of that noble man of high repute, who solemnly decreed,
equal in eating, equal under the divine law we must be.
look out, everyone, lest you should run loose unawares.
who stands secure against the lapse of countless years?
begging on the road, i was caught by a sudden storm.
directly i sought shelter in an aged village shrine.
laugh, whoever is tempted, at my sad bowl and flask.
reconciled am i to finding myself in a ruined house.
10. a few chrysanthemums still about, the darkening hedge,
14 wintry crow  wheel above the cluster of silent trees.
distant hills and mountain crests aglow with the sun,
time for me, perhaps, to embrace my bowl and go home.
9.
11chinese poems 4
11. in springtime, all the airs seem to stay in harmony.
15 ringing my bells, i walk out to the citys east end.
in a garden, willow trees are sprouting fresh green,
and water weeds lie afloat on a sleepy lake surface.
my begging bowl is loaded with a heap of white rice,
and i rise far beyond the glory of the rich emperor.
hoping truly to follow upon the heels of holy sages
i march along from house to house, begging for alms.
12. all the day long, i have begged most unsuccessfully.
20 from village to village, i dragged my worn-out feet.
at sunset, i have many more mountainous miles to go,
the wind is strong enough to split my beard asunder.
my garments are reduced to shreds of thinning smoke.
my empty bowl, discoloured from use, looks deformed.
such as i am, i will not grudge, nor spare my pains.
cold or hungry, go i must as many a saint before me.
13. this rank absurdity of mine, when can i throw it away?
22 this abject poverty 1 shall take to the grave with me.
after dark, along the dirt road of a decaying village,
i carry homeward my begging bowl, weathered and empty.
14. after a long day of begging in the city, i go homeward,
23 fully contented with what 1 have got in my begging bag.
holy man, which way lies your home, your resting place?
somewhere beneath those clouds, is all i know about it.
15. frozen snow holds all the mountain tops about my house.
25 barred from human approach, footways of the valley lie.
day after day, i sit by myself facing the wall of clay.
i hear now and then snowflakes brush against my window.5. chinese poem by
ryokan no. 14chinese poems 49
1. my hermitage is named after the five bowls of rice.
2 my room is naked, except for the gong, as they say.
a thousand cedars stand together outside my window.
a few odes in my saviours praise hang on the wall.
an iron pot, my rice-cooker, has some kitchen dust.
my hollow furnace is seldom heated by cooking-fire.
yet in an east village i have a friend, an old man.
he often knocks at my gate beneath the bright moon.
1. bent under a pile of firewood, i walk down a hill.
2 the green hill road is too steep for my aged legs.
i take a m om ents breath, beneath a towering pine.
with a quiet mind, i hear spring warblers twitter.
18. o n the garden steps, gay havoc made of cherry flowers.
28 the sweet colloquy of birds spreading like a tapestry.
slow steps of the sun loitering a while at the window,
pale smoke ascends undisturbed from an incense burner.
19. the cottage gate remains unlocked most of the year.
29 seldom do callers stir the deep quiet of my garden.
today, after the prolonged rain of the plum season,
myriad oak leaves lie scattered on the mossy earth.
20. the basho tree spreading its big leaves at my window
30 climbs upwards, all but tall enough to brush the sky.
beneath its cool shade, i make poems, long and short,
not for a moment leaving this quiet seat by the tree.
21. where can 1 cover myself from the summer heat, except
31 here, this place of self-exile, the shrine of izuruta,
where the chorus of cicadas supplies music to my ears,
and the surrounding woods, unasked, breathe fresh air?50 chinese poems
22. utterly devoid of movement, this small house of mine,
32 all day long, not a single human eye ever glances in.
i sit alone at the window, absorbed in deep thinking,
my ears bent to the quiet falls of scattering leaves.
23. already well-advanced in hours, this late-autumn night.
33 cold dewdrops have penetrated through my outer garment.
darkness has rendered invisible the walls of my garden.
crickets singing underneath dying grass are all i hear.
24. my house is buried in the deepest recess of the forest.
34 every year, ivy vines grow longer than the year before.
undisturbed by the affairs of the world i live at ease,
w oodmens singing rarely reaching me through the trees.
while the sun stays in the sky, i mend my tom clothes
and, facing the moon, 1 read holy texts aloud to myself.
let me drop a word of advice for believers of my faith.
to enjoy lifes immensity, you do not need many things.
25. to the end of the day i walked along, begging for food.
35 having reached home, i close behind me my cottage door.
then i build a fire with branches still bearing leaves,
and read quietly poems of kanzan, a hermit of old days,
while the swelling west wind brings with it heavy rain.
my thatched roof moans under the w eight of the tempest.
but my kgs stretched at ease, 1 lie down on the floor.
what have i to worry me, or to raise doubt in my heart?
2. since i began to climb this steep path of discipline,
3 i have lived behind a fast gate and a thousand hills.
aged trees rise dark about me, fettered by ivy vines.
rocks look cold on hillsides, half-covered in clouds.
the posts of my house are all ruined by nightly rain,
my holy gown reduced to shreds by early morning mist.
no news of me my kin or rhe world have cared to know,
y f ' n r a f r p r w a r f o r -ill r h p t i p i r c i v m m i n ro rl u of ochinese poems 51
2. as a summer night advances into chaste hours of morning,
40 from bamboo leaves, dewdrops fall to the brushwood gate.
the pounding noise from my west neighbour has long died.
the rank grass of my garden is moist with gathering dew.
far and near, the frogs of the marsh chant their chorus.
high and low, fireflies fly about, their lamps blinking.
keenly awake, i cannot possibly seal my eyes with sleep.
slowly rubbing my pillow, i think beyond time and space.
28. a solitary trail stretches away through a million trees.
41 a thousand pinnacles above me are hid in cloud and mist.
not autumn yet, fallen leaves lie thick upon the ground.
hardly a rainy day, but all the rocks are dark and grim.
a basket in my hands, i hunt for mushrooms in the woods.
a bucket below my arm, i draw water from a stony spring.
who can indeed content himself with this manner of life,
unless he has seen himself altogether lost in the world?
29. 1 sit down and shut my eyes, as darkness dims the hills,
44 the thoughts of human affairs leave me, creating a void.
unable to sustain myself, 1 lean against the bedclothes
and, half-awake, look into the blank void of the window.
the smoke of the incense burner has measured itself out.
dewy as it is, 1 am naked, with but a thin gown upon me.
rising from my meditation, i stroll about in the garden,
whence i see the clear moon rise above the highest peak.
30. i am imprisoned in my cottage among the solitary hills,
48 and think about the wet snow driving outside my window.
the cries of black monkeys are echoed by rocky summits.
the icy stream runs hushed at the bottom of the valley.
the flaming light by the window is chilled to its core,
and frost-dry is the ink slab i have placed on my desk.
the night has thus prevented me from falling to repose.
1 employ my brush, often warming it with my own breath.chinese poems
31. o n the floor of an empty hall i planted myself alone.
51 but nowhere could i find ease for my oppressed heart.
and so i mounted a horse, travelling far at a gallop,
and climbed a mountain, to command a vast, vast view.
presently a whirlwind came blowing out of the ground,
and the sun dropped westward, losing its usual light.
the winding river at once surged, its waves mounting,
and the boundless stretch of wilderness lay obscured.
black monkeys called one another in descending gloom,
and a stray fowl roved southward, flapping its wings.
when 1 saw this, a hundred thoughts twisted my brows,
and fear a million times sterner froze my inner core.
groping for a way to retreat, i could nowhere see it.
like the year at its close, i stood lost unto myself.
32. among the low foothills of mt. kugami, i have my home,
54 and with simple tea and plain rice 1 sustain my flesh.
long have i hoped to receive a guest with spiked ears.
but men gathering dry firewood are all i can see here.
33. upon the top of mt. kugami, i once turned my head to see
55 the heavy frozen sky and the dying sun at its lowest rim.
the day before, 1 had gathered some nuts and drawn water.
those woods and that spring now below the obscuring blue.
34. a burglar made away with my leaning block and my cushion,
0 but who could have hindered him from entering my cottage?
on the night i was robbed, i sat down at my black window.
passing showers made empty sounds in the bamboo thickets.
35. o, the woefife state of this world and m ans frozen heart!
1 i know not where under heaven i can find my lifes peace.
yesterday night, beating drums were heard in the village.
alarm, they say, at a thiefs approach, to scare him off!chinese poems 53
3. in sickbed i remain awake, my eyes under a strange spell.
3 all the walls about me are dead silent, as night deepens.
the candle remains flameless, the fireplace without heat.
icy cold creeps, unprevented, beneath my pillow and gown.
having nothing else to comfort me, i rise out of the bed,
and leaning on my crooked cane, i stagger into my garden.
o n the twigs of leafless trees i see stars in full bloom,
and a distant stream plucks a cordless harp, as it falls.
tonight, i have had the bare strength to write this poem.
tomorrow, will i have voice to recite, given an audience?
3. my walking stick and straw sandals in this swampy village
4 have lured me out to enjoy an easterly breeze in february
spring warblers are now in the bush, learning their songs
strips of snow about the hedge, grasses already sprouting
i met a friend by the way, and we spoke of grave subjects
we opened books at his house heads in our hands, thought
a perfect evening, both lights and winds in quiet harmony,
a plum tree breathing sweet inspiration to my blest heart.
38, i have in my possession an old cane to support my weight.
5 from w hom it came to me, what history it has, i know not.
from long use, the bark has dropped away, layer by layer,
till the incorruptible core of the wood remains lustrous.
oft with this cane i have crossed a ford, feeling my way,
often in my wandering, i have saved myself from calamity.
this cane, however, leans aimlessly against a sunny wall,
and its service has been ignored longer than i can count.
39. priest as i am, i but honor the behests of the western sky.
 i hid myself at mt. kugami, and stopped counting the years.
all my garments are threadbare like thinning mist or smoke.
i wander around, supporting my weight upon my crooked cane.
removed to a distant valley, i recite poems to my own ears.
planting myself upon a stone, i watch silver clouds gather.
yet, my heart is heavy for this w orlds sake, and the fame54 chinese poems
40. the full length of a dark winter night is just its length,
 long and slow-moving, as i once found it upon my cold bed.
there was no life in the candle, no heat in the fireplace.
my face on the pillow, i hearkened to the night-long rain.
41. as the thoughts of my boyhood return to me in this old age,
9 i often picture myself reading a book alone in a huge hall.
the burning candle before me has been replaced many a time.
in diose days i knew not the full length of a winter night.
42. taken by illness, i lay upon my back, altogether helpless.
1 oft my spirit searched in a dream the sights once visited.
this morning, i rose, and dragged my feet to a river-bank.
i saw peach blossoms flowing ceaselessly after the stream.
43. my haggard face is so wasted that it obscures the mirror.
2 my frosty hair is long enough to produce twisted tangles.
the lips fever-dry incessantly thirst for a moist relief.
the black skin wrapped in filth craves immediate washing.
burning heat and icy chill dispute for power in my flesh,
and my pulse fails, having fallen in a mire of confusion.
only woodcutters talk reaches my ears through the woods,
to acquaint me of the half of february lost all too soon.
44. imprisoned by the walls of my hermitage i lie upon my back.
3 for a whole day, not a soul comes to pay me a kindly visit.
my begging bag hangs slack, with my bowl in its empty womb.
my walking stick has surrendered itself to the piling dust.
dreams go their ways, revolving around the hills and moors.
my spirit returns to the city where it once found pleasure.
at the busy street corners, i have not the slightest doubt,
many boys are expecting me to return as a matter of course.chinese poems 55
45. for three months this spring, i lay sick in my lonely house.
 one day, a visitor wanted my brush work on a sheet of paper.
i shut my eyes and remembered that this day the year before
i had played at a village shrine till dusk took me unawares.
4. since i shed my black hair and took vows as a holy priest,
 my feet have carried me for years through grass and winds.
till today they thrust at me everywhere a brush and paper,
telling me but to make, but to write poems for their sake.
4. what destiny has put together myself and this writing-brush?
8 having laid it down, i take it again at my friends request.
failing to unriddle this mystery, i have none to comfort me
but the infinite he who has tamed the sins and walks heaven.
48. in the depth of a quiet night i draw my ink slab towards me.
80 my face aglow with wine, i drop my well-worn brush to paper.
in my poems, i try to equal plum blossoms in sweet opulence.
a dying stock, i shall not yield to budding shoots like you.
49. mile after mile i tramped till i chanced on a farm house.
81 the sun was about to drop its fiery ball behind a forest.
sparrows had gathered themselves around a bamboo thicket.
they flew about in the closing dark all in a noisy flock.
presently a farmer came home from his work in the fields.
he had hardly seen me before he greeted me as his friend.
he told his wife to strain the cloudy wine to welcome me,
and with his garden vegetables, he treated me to a feast.
we sat down across a table, to drink each others health.
o ur conversation that night was beyond the worldly level.
we drank till we were both tipsy, and in our elated mood,
neither of us knew for sure right or wrong here on earth.5 chinese poems
50. one day, in summer, when rice plants were coming into ear,
83 i went out of my gate, swinging my belled cane to and fro.
i had not gone many a mile on my way when in a paddyfield
a farmer saw me, stopped me, forced me to stay for a chat.
a plain reed mat spread on the ground served for our seat,
and we ate from wide paulownia leaves used for our plates.
under the gay sky, we passed our cordial cups a few times,
till i was tipsy, and fell asleep, my skull on the ground.
51. true, all the seasons have moonlit nights,
84 but heres the best night to see the moon.
the hills never so aloft, the streams never so clear,
in the infinite blue of autumn sky flies a disk of light.
neither light nor gloom is graced with a life of its own.
the moon and the earth are one, and myself one with them.
the boundless sky above, and autumn chill on my skin,
i stroll about low hills, leaning upon my priceless cane.
quiet night has held firm the flitting dust of the world.
the bright moon alone pours streams of rays all about me.
i mind it not if another like-minded is also admiring it,
o r if the moon deigns to look on others as well as on me.
each year as autumn comes, the moon will shine as before,
and the world will watch it, will face it, till eternity.
sermons at mt. ryozen, lectures in the vale of sokei,
were teachings so precious, the audience needed the moon.
my meditation under the moon lasts till the ripest night.
the stream has hushed its cry, dew lies thick everywhere.
who, among the moon-viewers tonight, will have the prize?
who will reflect the purest m oon in the lake of his mind?
surely you all know of that riverside moon-viewing of long ago,
when fugan alone, the rest lagging, ran beyond the flesh,
and of yakkyo who, moon-inspired, cracked a laugh on a hilltop?
their reputation rose high, when the feats were reported,
but over a thousand years intervene between now and then.
men have watched for naught the vicissitudes of the moon.
i am, nonetheless, swayed in my thoughts by the ancients.
tonight, i keep a bright vigil, my robes soaked in tears.chinese poems 5
52. one bitterly blighted day, in the gray month of november,
8 snow descended on us, while we were benighted by a gloom.
in the beginning, the flakes looked hard like sandy salt.
later, they were more like the downy flowers of a willow.
they, fell upon bamboo twigs with rustles in their leaves.
they piled on pine branches, forming many strange shapes.
not quite ready yet to open the books of ancient masters,
i found mounting in my dark self a desire to write poems.
53. it once grew in the heavenly country far away in the west.
88 no one knows how many years since its coming to the world.
its white petals are wrapped in a profusion of shiny dews.
its rare-green leaves spread everywhere in the round lake.
chaste is its scent wafted over the fence by a quiet wind.
arrestingly calm, its whole poise as it rises above water.
the sun has already hid itself behind the hills before me
but i cannot move a step for the charm of the lotus plant.
54. now i sing the glory of the bamboo trees around my house.
89 several thousands stand together, forming a placid shade.
young shoots run wild, blocking the roads here and there.
old branches stretch all the way, cutting across the sky.
frosty winters have armed them with a spiritual strength.
rising mists wrap them with the veil of profound mystery.
in their healthy beauty they even rank with pine and oak,
although they do not vie in grandeur with peach and plum.
their trunks are upright and their knots are far between.
their hearts are void of stuffing and their roots sturdy.
bamboo trees, i admire you for your honesty and strength.
be my friends, and stand about my retreat until eternity.
55. several miles beyond the city wall stands the house of to.
90 i walk toward it, led by the woodcutter i chanced to meet.
o n either side of the footpath rises a row of green pines.
over the valley, the scent of a wild plum is wafted to me.
each visit to this place yields me a fresh spiritual gain.58 chinese poems
where else can i lay aside my cane and stand at full ease?
in the ancient pond swarm fishes big enough to be dragons.
quiet holds the enclosing woods, and the day moves slowly.
within the house itself, not a hoard of worldly treasures,
but a jum ble of books in verse and prose spread on a desk.
flushed with inspiration, i loosen myself and my garments.
gleaning some words from old masters, i make my own poems.
when the twilight comes, i stroll out to the east veranda.
a spring bird, an earlier visitor, greets me on its wings.
5. soon as springtime warmth tempers the month of february,
92 plums and peaches begin to spread their varied blossoms.
some are so high, they rise over the tops of the houses.
others, lower than the garden fence, creep on the earth.
brighter than the sun, they all glow tenderly colourful.
their scent flies higher than eventide mists and clouds.
princes arrive in their coaches to banquet beneath them.
ladies walk, hand in hand, in the garden to admire them.
there is no telling, however, when a mad storm will hit.
they will then be swept along like snow to bury the city.
5. high on a rocky hill, at the temple named great sorrow,
95 i hold my chin in my hands, and watch far clouds glide.
tall pines about me rise straight up to the hollow sky.
the winds, old as the world itself, send me chaste air.
far below me, there rises a spring named dragons well.
its water is so pure, the pebbled floor shows flawless.
let me call in my loudest voice to each wayfarer i see,
come, and see yourself mirrored in this spotless glass.
58. here are the ijuins of the cottage where i once hid myself.
99 revisited now in stark solitude, my cane alone at my side.
the fences have tumbled over the walks of foxes and hares.
the well has dried up, nearly covered over by rank bamboo.
cobwebs hang slack at the window, where i once had a desk.
the floor i sat upon for long meditation has sunk in dust.chinese poems 59
the garden steps have fallen under the bushy autumn grass.
crickets alone raise their cries as if in defiance of man.
loth to leave this place, i maunder around for many hours,
till, appalled at the twilight, i watch the decuning sun.
59. not a stray bird flies over the range of remote hills.
101 in the secluded garden, leaves fall one after another.
in the autumn wind that breathes cheerless desolation
a man is standing by himself, wrapped in a black gown.
0. this morning, the shrine gate has a pile of silver snow.
102 all the trees on the holy ground shine, as with flowers.
who may it be, i keep thinking, the boy out in the cold,
throwing snowballs, as if the world existed all for him.
1. the big river is at a flood level, the spring nearly over.
105 the downy flowers of willow trees fall on my gown sleeves.
far beyond in the gathering mist, a fishing boat whistles.
who will ease me of this infinite melancholy in my breast?
2. toofoggy to earn my own livelihood ever since i was bom,
110 for good or evil, i have just let events take their shape.
within my begging sack, i have but three handfuls of rice.
by my fireplace, a bundle of dry branches to keep me warm.
i pursue not the subtle difference between true and false.
i aspire not to gain the dust of worldly fame and fortune.
o n a damp night, secure under the roof of my grassy house,
i stretch out both my legs, my conscience perfectly clear.
3. a reply to a friend
111 such is my bigoted stupidity, i cannot live with any man.
befriended by trees and herbs, 1 pass my declining years.
too idle to learn the difference between right and wrong,0 chinese poems
1 laugh at my old self, not caring what others might say.
lifting my bony shanks, i cross a running stream at ease.
a sack in my hand, i walk about, blest by spring weather.
living in this way, i lack not my lifes bare sustenance.
never once have i harboured wry hatred against the world.
4. tatters, nothing but tatters, are the garments on my back,
11 and what else but tatters is left of my life, at this age?
seated on a wayside stone, i eat food given me in charity
i have long surrendered my house to the encroaching weeds.
o n a moonlit night, i sit up singing poems to my own ears.
led astray by the flowers, 1 roam away till i lose myself.
ever since i left the temple where i was once an inquirer,
by my own sheer folly, i have sunk to this wretched state.
5. in my youth, i threw aside my writing brush and ink slab,
11 and pined in my heart for the life of the ancient saints.
then, nothing but a flask and a bowl in my begging hands,
i wandered far and wide, no one knows for how many years.
having at last come home, in the shade of a cragged hill,
at a weedy cottage i found the restful life of a recluse.
i have since lived alone, turning to songbirds for music,
and for my friends i have white clouds rising in the sky.
beneath a massive rock, a spring swells in a fair stream,
whose clear water washes the dust from my black garments.
near the ridges, tall pines and oaks rise towards heaven
their branches and leaves give me warmth in cold weather.
with nothing to worry me, not a care to disturb my peace,
i live from day to day till the day dawns no more for me.
. a warm easterly wind has brought with it a timely rain.
118 it pours softly on the thatched roof in the deep night.
the lord of the house dozes, his head on a high pillow.
asleep or awake, he knows not the tricks of this world.
the dawn comes, bathing the green hills in fresh light.
the spring birds twitter in every branch of the forest.chinese poems 1
rising from my sleep, i walk cheerfully out at my gate
and roam about, following the wind rather than my will.
streams run through the field to soak a far-off hamlet.
blossoms blaze upon the slopes of the rare-green hills.
w hoever he is, i see an aged man with a cow behind him,
and a youth, wherever his home, with a hoe on his back.
everything on earth is busy at its work, never staying,
and for all i know, every man has a duty in his charge.
who am i, the lord of an empty house, to stand useless,
chained by the bond of attachment to my native village.
. void of fleshly desire, i find satisfaction in all things.
121 nothing is big enough to cure mans desire, once awakened.
wild vegetables are quite sufficient to gratify my hunger.
the gown i have on my flesh keeps me wrapped against cold.
i range all by myself, stags and harts keeping me company.
i sing loudly to myself, children answering me in harmony.
by a mossy rock, i have a clear spring to wash my ears in.
upon the ridges, tall pines to comfort me in my sore need.
8. i think of the past, to realize it is gone beyond recall.
123 i try to think of the present, but it never stays for me.
time glides slowly away, leaving not a trace in its wake.
who can be wise or foolish in this constant flux of time?
i live day to day, quietly accepting my share of destiny.
i sustain my life, and wait till i am released from time.
after long wandering abroad, i came here to this cottage,
now twenty years ago, as i look back upon the years gone.
9. as soon as peaceful harmony makes itself known in the sky,
129 i flick my cane and leave my gate, to enjoy a spring walk.
streams run with a tiny m urm ur on the floor of the valley,
and the forests echo with the soft music of singing birds.
if 1 meet a priest on my way, i walk with him for a while.
if a friend, i follow him home for a restful conversation.
truly, this life of mine, with what can i best compare it
but that boat, released of its moorine. drifting offshore?2 chinese poems
0. now that august has arrived, a cool breeze begins to blow.
130 water-fowl fly southward in their journey across the seas.
1, too, leave my house to wander away, a flask in my hand.
down the green hill road 1 make haste, possessed with joy.
if i meet a priest by chance, i leave my road to join him.
if a wanderer like myself, i walk by his side for company.
truly, this life of mine, with what can i best compare it
but those weeds, afloat on the water, blown by the breeze?
1. no longings have 1 in my heart to seek lifes gay flowers.
132 with hills and streams for my friends, i live free as air.
1 let the clouds swallow my shadow, as i walk on the road.
birds often fly over my head, as 1 sit resting on a stone.
my straw sandals heavy with snow, i visit frozen villages.
a cane in my hand, i range the spring fields on fair days.
deep enough have i probed into the truth of our existence
to know the glory of spring flowers is but a form of dust.
2. far and wide i roamed, but nowhere could 1 ease my heart.
134 i have at last come home to this retreat in a sordid row.
during the day, i must bear the lies of world-crazed men,
and at night, the rotten talk of my garrulous neighbours.
my hollow room has its dole of the white rays at times,
but my hearthstones stand unheated for many days running.
even so, let it be no word of protest will move my lips.
i accept all, for all is given me as my share of destiny.
3. the red coral has its home on the floor of the south sea
13 the purple lawn grows lush on the slopes of arctic hills.
everything alive on earth has its home as its birthright,
defined, not as it grows, but at the time of its genesis.
once in my g  e n years, i chanced to forsake my homeland,
and trusting myself to a cane, 1 roamed a thousand miles.
many a time on the doors of aged teachers i gave a knock,
and under their guidance, suffered autumns of discipline.
my purpose was to build a broad thoroughfare of my faith.chinese poems 3
i never grudged to use my flesh, froth-weak as i knew it.
alas, the years have slid away faster than i could dream!
now i am at a loss what to say about myself, so timeworn.
having returned to where i belong, to a house by a cliff,
i gather early and late wild bracken sprouts for my fare.
4. october has brought with it wintry blasts and icy chill.
139 i rose with the sun, and down the hill i went by myself.
the trees around me were all rid of their summer leaves.
the streams were winter-dry and voiceless on their beds.
i turned my head, and cast a far glance at a south hill,
where i found pines and oaks firm in their proud vigour.
in this season when all things droop, fall, and scatter,
pines and oaks alone have the strength to defy the cold.
what about me, i asked myself, but the answer failed me.
pines and oaks before my eyes, i sang their loud praise.
5. many a time in my youth, i sat down for long meditation,
140 hoping to master by practice the art of quiet breathing,
and in this study i spent many years of frost and stars,
till i was quite oblivious of my meals and my own sleep.
what virtue i now have in me tofoster my hearts peace,
i owe it to the hard discipline i underwent in my youth.
alas, what am i to speak thus, lacking that artless art
wherein all is learned but once, all forever to be mine?
. with the sun, everything on earth falls into deep repose.
141 i, too, return home, and close my cottage door behind me.
the cries of crickets are already scarce and far between.
the trees and grass have lost their proud summer colours.
the long night often requires a new filling of my censer.
chill on my skin forces upon me a pile of thick garments.
let us use our diligence while we may, my gentle friends,
tim e flies like an arrow and lingers not a moment for us.4 chinese poems
a debate in a dream
  .
143 on my begging round, i happened to enter a thriving city.
an old man with a brow of deep wisdom met me in the road.
he stopped me with the question, why is it, reverend sir,
you live far away on a hilltop, below those white clouds?
i, in return, inquired of him, why is it, my good master,
you have so long spent your life in the roar of the city?
both tried to answer, and searched in vain for apt words,
but my dream was broken at the tolling of a morning bell.
8. envy not for once, my noble friend, my careless freedom.
144 satisfaction can be got wherever there is hearts peace.
who in a thousand knows that seldom in these blue hills
are tigers and wolves found to range in the secret dark?
9. whoever reads my poetry, and calls it poetry by its name,
145 i know he is in grave error, for my poetry is not poetry.
after you have learned my poetry is unworthy of its name
i will sit down to discuss with you the secret of my art.
80. since i left the holy temple wherein my teacher presided,
149 free in my simple ignorance, i have spent many idle days.
i have kept beside me a single cane to support my weight.
my garments have melted away like loose threads of smoke.
facing a blank window, i hearken to the rain of midnight.
i bounce balls in a street, thriving in springtime glory.
should anyone kindly question me by the wayside who i am,
1 would but present myself as an idle man in an idle age.
81. choked by the smell of herbs, a spring day falls to dark.
150 dotted with peach blossoms, a river goes its endless way.
1 am by nature unmindful of the sly wisdom of this world.
bewitched by the charm of spring, i cannot rest my heart.chinese poems
82. aboard the boats from far-off provinces, sailors are busy.
153 some sing their native songs, others play gay instruments.
i was away in the calm of a mountain temple but yesterday,
a butterfly, revelling like the sailors in a vernal dream.
a n answer to the priest tenges poem on the n ew year
alas, man lingers here but as a horse runs through a gate.
year after year, he piles up the debts he intended to pay.
tom orrow, another year will come, if i can trust my sense.
i am already a man of grizzled hair and beard, time-taken.
before me, riverside willows are swinging their soft arms,
but plums are not yet graced with fragrance upon the hill.
i lack the wings to fly a million miles against the storm.
ungifted, i echo the phoenix on yonder hill in my singing.
84. it was a whim of destiny that brought me under my teacher.
15 after a while, i left his temple to fall into my own ways.
free from hunger, freed from sickness, i now live content,
contemporary of ancient sages and old leaders of my faith.
85. i left my family, my own home, to seek wisdom far abroad.
158 just a gown and a bowl with me, i wandered many a spring.
today, i have returned, to visit friends of my past days.
alas, many of them sleep under mossy stones but as names.
after a few years of wandering about in far-off provinces,
today, i have returned home to the sacred shrine of otogo.
know me, my friends, to be safe from the ills of the road,
by the lights, bright as before in the sockets of my eyes.
8. in my green years, i left my father and ran to a stranger.
13 1 have laboured since to draw a tiger, painting but a cat.
should anyone inquire of me now what i think about myself,
i would answer, i am just as i was in youth, eizo by name.
8.
10
83.
155 chinese poems
88. as a boy, i studied the arts, failing to become a scholar.
15 in youth, i studied zen, failing to obey my masters lamp.
i now live in a grassy cottage, merged in a shinto shrine,
not unlike a shrine-keeper, or unlike a prophet of buddha.
89. this busy world transforms itself like wind-driven clouds.
1 some fifty years of my life seem to me one unbroken dream.
late at night, as quiet showers fall on my grassy cottage,
i embrace my holy gown, and lean against my hollow window.
90. for sixty years and more i have been but an ailing priest.
19 my cottage is beside a shrine, away from the smoking town.
late at night, rains flood down, rooting up massive rocks.
before my dark window the candlelight falters in the wind.
91. i am more than seventy, as i look back upon my years gone.
11 i have known the rights and wrongs of men, till i am sick.
o n this night of deep snow, hardly a trace of man in view,
a rod of incense gives off a trail of smoke by the window.
92. good manners and sweet habits have faded, year after year.
12 both court and country have sunk down, one age to another.
m ens hearts have grown stiff and stony, as time descends.
the first teachers steps have dimmed, after hard wearing.
leaders of numerous sects cry out beliefs of their making.
their disciples shout even louder to promote their causes.
leaders and disciples alike stick together on their guard.
on peril of their lives, they do not yield to their enemy.
if, in religion, sects rule absolute, each in its dignity,
who, amid thg ancient saints, could not have taken a lead?
and if each man, in his own power, wishes to found a sect,
alas, i know not where i might find a proper place for me.
leaders of different sects, stay your quarrelling a while,
and bend your slow ears to what i have to say on my faith.chinese poems 
my faith has trickled down far away from its chief source
who preached at mt. ryozen is whom i must first recommend.
he has climbed, beyond our reach, to the zenith of heaven.
no one alive has wisdom enough to know his right or wrong.
about five hundred years after he sank into eternal gloom,
learned men began to interpret his teachings in many ways,
until a great man was born unto this world, a guide to us,
who sorted out problems and wove a subtle web of thinking.
he, moreover, acted out what he thought right in his view,
so again, no one can aspire to discuss his right or wrong.
by and by, my faith found its way into an eastern country,
where its sole foundation was built at the temple, hakuba.
into this country came, through hardships, a wise teacher,
and placed under his leadership sects then in mortal feud.
it was during the well-governed reign of the t an g dynasty,
when the flowers of wisdom budded and bloomed all at once.
people listened to him and followed him with high respect.
he led the sects in full accord, like a lion in the woods.
signs of disintegration were rank shortly after his death,
but the sad split between north and south came much later.
it was but in the last troublous days of the sung dynasty,
when the white wall of zen tumbled to the pressure of men.
then the so-called five schools began to lift their heads,
and they together opposed the proud eight sects for power.
the result was naught but confusion followed by confusion.
alas, no one is alive now who can put it right by his wit.
my faith took root in my native land at the temple, eihei,
planted there by a man who rose by himself above the rest.
this man bore his masters seal far away from mt. taihaku,
and founded his solid fame in my country, loud as thunder.
what he chose to teach in his books caused wonder and awe.
even fierce elephants and dragons would have been quelled.
many have walked along the highway of faith marked by him,
and arrived in the regions of pure light, lit by his fire.
his books are free from needless quibbles and repetitions,
and contain all we ever need to study about our salvation.
alas, since the teacher left my country, this divine land,
i know not how many ages have slipped in quick succession8 chinese poems
during which time, weeds rose to oppress the house of zen,
and herbs of fragrance have all drooped, unable to resist.
who, amid the holies now, can move sun-warm lips like his,
when the cries of self-sacred divines daily tire the town?
1 cannot arrest the surge of sorrow, in my heart, for 1 am
a weak man come to the world to face its worst in history.
when the whole frame threatens to tumble down through rot,
h ow can 1, a single man, carry its weight on my shoulders?
one quiet night, deprived of sleep, my eyes under a spell,
i rolled over many times in my bed, and wrote these lines.
93. since i shed my black hair, and became a wandering priest,
13 i have depended on charity for the sustenance of my flesh.
fully aware of what 1 am, how beggarly i must go each day,
i have not the least pride in me to slacken self-reproach.
h ow is it, then, the divines of the world, as i hear them,
cry aloud to advance their empty words by day or by night?
but to serve their mouths and stomachs, so it seems to me,
they have lost themselves, and sent their hearts far away.
when i see ordinary men of the world fallen in mortal sin,
i can sympathize with them and forgive them for ignorance.
but you who have vowed to uphold the holy way of a priest,
h ow can you suffer yourselves to be so smeared with filth?
you are rid of your hair, to rend your attachment to life.
you wear a black robe, to show all colours are but shades.
you have abandoned all your human obligations, to be free,
at an equal distance away from the worldly right or wrong.
when i go on my begging round each morning before sunrise,
i see men and women busy doing their duties in the fields.
if they do not spin, how can they cover their naked limbs?
if they do not till, how will they gratify their stomachs?
the self-appointed disciples of buddha alone live useless,
wholly unernloyed in works, wholly undisciplined in faith.
they devour the good will of their unsuspecting adherents.
neglectful of the deeds of their limbs, mouths and hearts.
they put their heads together, to revel in grandiloquence.
taken by this old vice, they know not either dawn or dusk.
they present their respectful brows for the world to view,chinese poems 9
b ut trapping innocent old women is all that they care for.
if successful, they think themselves the cleverest of men.
ah, when will they stop dreaming and come to their senses?
much better it were to be thrown into the paths of tigers
than to find yourself lost in the labyrinth of false fame.
if a grain of proud desire forces its way into your heart,
w ith all the water of the sea, you cannot purge its stain.
since your leave-taking, what do you consider your father
has been doing for your sake, early and late, at his home?
with fumes of incense on the altar, he prays to every god
for your continuous devotion to your religious discipline.
if you be really such as you are, or such as you now seem,
i cannot but wish you had not made your vow to begin with.
we all stay in this life but as a wayfarer does at an inn.
m ens lives expire as fast as morning dews before the sun.
opportunities are much sooner lost than got in all things.
in religion, you come on a true teacher but once or twice.
therefore, do not break off till you shine in true lustre,
nor stand idle, waiting for others to call on you to wake.
i have thrust upon you these numerous words of admonition,
not because i take delight in giving unsolicited counsels,
but in the honest hope that you will so search your heart,
that you may correct your manners, not tom orrow but today.
let us use our best diligence, friends who will follow me,
lest we should, some day, repent of our failures in youth.
94. as i mark the priests who have left their teachers to roam,
14 alas, i cannot but pity them, for they are green, each one.
they seem to think, unless known at the three head temples,
they are absolutely disgraced as members of the holy order.
this is why they have rashly given their teachers the slip
and roam from one place to another, relying on their canes,
to spend one summer at one temple they happened to stay at,
and to pass at another temple the three months of a winter.
to imitate the styles of sundry teachers they have visited
is all the business they bear in mind in their daily talks.
throw at them one searching word, when they light upon you.
you will know them, as before, green enough to excite pity.0 chinese poems
95. look at the preacher, interpreting passages of holy sutras.
15 such is his fluency, a river runs not so fast as his words.
on the five mystical stages and the eight blissful methods
he can comment so well, no one can exceed him in eloquence.
he recognizes himself as a learned man, wise in everything,
and the world raises no objection to this self-borne title.
nonetheless, search him for the secret mystery of our life.
not a word of just reply will leak out of his silent mouth.
9. once upon a time, at the holy temple of shakutai kannon in,
18 a group of ten blessed hearts lived united in full harmony.
they put their hands together, to perform their daily work.
they joined in holy talks, all equal in honour and respect.
they sat in their hall for ninety days of quiet meditation.
however employed, they raced with time, free from idleness.
now everyone will agree, never again a group of holy sages
such as this one will make its appearance in years to come.
9. whencc has this life of mine arrived at its present abode,
19 and after its departure, whereto is it destined to vanish?
seated below the sagebrush window of my cottage by myself,
i meditated on these questions, mute in the dead of night.
i searched my heart many times, but the answers failed me.
neither the wherefrom, nor the whereto, of my life 1 know.
equally unknown to me is my life's existence here and now,
for all the w orld is in a nim ble flux, and void therefore.
1 am suspended mid-air in the vacuity but for a twinkling.
h ow am 1 supposed to know the subtlety of right and wrong?
i must perforce receive what descends on me as my destiny,
and live accordingly, while i may, with careless serenity.
4
98. ancient sages left their works behind, not to let us know
181 about themselves, but to help us understand our own stamp.
had we wisdom deep enough to know ourselves single-handed,
no benefits would result from the works of ancient saints.chinese poems 1
a wise man learns the mystery of his existence in a flash
and climbs in a leap beyond the world of hollow phenomena,
whereas a foolish man holds wilfully to facts and details,
to drown himself in subtle differences of words and lines,
and being envious of others in their supreme achievements,
he wastes his mind night and day in his efforts to exceed.
truth, if you cleave to it as truth, turns into falsehood.
falsehood, when you see it as such, becomes at once truth.
truth and falsehood are the mated edges of a double sword.
none alive can separate with certainty one from the other.
alas, too many men drift with the skiff to fathom the sea.
from time immemorial they are causes of endless deception.
99. sweet saintliness is to be sought as a work of your heart.
185 the rightful path lies not amid things of constant change.
this plainest truth must be implanted time and time again,
lest you should fall a witless victim to deceiving voices.
if you turn your shafts northward, hoping to travel south,
alas, how can you ever arrive at your desired destination?
100. in its innocence, the heart is like water pure and bright.
18. boundless it presents itself to the sight of its beholder.
should a proud desire rise, however, to disturb its peace,
millions of wicked thoughts and pictures will bog it down.
if you take these fancies to be real enough to engage you,
you will be led farther and farther away from tranquility.
h ow sore it is to see a man crazed about earthly thoughts,
a heart bound closely by the cords of the ten temptations.
101. to hear the words of truth, you must wash your ears clean.
19 you will not, otherwise, stand true to what you will hear.
you will ask what it is i mean by washing your ears clean.
it means to rid yourself of all you have heard beforehand.
if only one word of your previous learning remains within,
you will fail to embrace the words, when they come to you.2 chinese poems
resembling what you know, a plain lie may seem acceptable,
and a simple truth, strange to your ears, may sound false.
how often, alas, we have our judgm ents made in our hearts,
when truth lies outside, in a place beyond our conception.
let us not commit such folly as to steep a stone in water,
to hide it for a moment, knowing it will show in due time.
102. beauty is still accompanied in this world by vile ugliness.
198 truth cannot be, unless mated to its counterpart falsehood.
wisdom and folly come from the same source, though unknown.
blind delusion and wakeful enlightenment walk side by side.
since time immemorial, it has always been as  have stated,
and you must have marked it for yourself long before i did.
to cast away one thing as false, taking up another as true,
is little more than to indulge in the dream of a twinkling.
once vowed to the profound mystery shrouded in these words,
who will commit himself to ever-changing rights and wrongs?
103. words come sweeping out of your mouth, when your lips move.
202 your arms are slow to act, be you anxious to use them well.
you often try to cover up with your ready-to-flow speeches
what your lazy arms have not quite succeeded in performing.
the harder you try to polish, the more you spoil your work.
the more words you pour out, the greater evils you provoke.
let us not commit such folly as to flood the fire with oil,
to cool it down for a moment, knowing it will soon explode.
104. do not drive after this or that thing in your mad pursuit.
204 lock up your lips in deep reticence to do your daily work.
never fill your mouth till hunger revolts in your stomach,
nor rattle yourteeth until you are fully awake and aware.
ever since i learned what 1 know about the life of hakuyu,
i have some means at least to sustain myself in the world.
master your breath, so you may be tense with inner spirit.
no ills, then, can break into your heart from the outside.chinese poems 3
105. as i cast my eyes about me, to learn how men live on earth,
210 i see them all busy trying to satisfy their hungry desires,
and lagging far behind what they strive so hard to possess,
they fret, mourn, and torture themselves into deep despair.
be they ever so lucky as to seize the prize in their palms,
h ow long, let me ask them, could they hold it as their own?
for every blissful pleasure they seek to win in this world,
ten times they must rack themselves with the pangs of hell.
ah, how can they find peace by trading anguish for anguish,
to stay forever caught in the tangles which bind them fast?
to use a simile, they are like the apes on a moonlit night
that in their mad appetite to grab the silver disk of moon,
shedding its bright beams, halfway across a running stream,
leap one after another into the fathomless whirlpool below.
alas, i cannot but take pity on the proud men of the world,
for they are doomed to an endless struggle, robbed of rest.
tears run down my face, in spite of myself, as 1 sit alone,
and muse on mans wretched state over and over in the dark.
10. such is the power of mutability that all our lives perish,
211 this minute and this minute, faster than any can foretell.
a youths rosy cheeks wither, no matter how we prize them.
a m ans bushy hairs droop till they are thin like strings.
years weigh on your backs till your bone bends like a bow.
the skin on your weary face wrinkles like the ruffled sea.
a noise like that of a cicada attacks your ears all night.
flowers flitter in your eyes all day, dazzling your sense.
when you rise or sit, you must vent out a long windy sigh,
and when you walk, you must support your weight on a cane.
you chase in your dreams the memories of your happy youth,
and count in despair the miseries of your over-ripe years.
h ow else can i describe the wretched state of an aged man,
but to compare it with a broken bough flung away in frost?
yet we all must come to this state, sooner than we expect,
for time never spares us, once we are born in frail flesh.
tim e creeps on, minute by minute, without a m om ents stay,
and how long can we retain our youthful days against time?the elements that constitute our flesh languish every day,
and, nightly, sick dullness overspreads our mind and body.
one morning you will find yourself far too weak to get up.
then for many days following, you must lie upon your back.
the lips that you once used to whip others with eloquence,
w hat use do they have now, when you m ust sleep in silence?
once your breath fails and leaves your body in sad stupor,
all the instruments of your perception lose their virtues.
your friends and relatives will watch your facc and mourn.
your ow n family will lament, passing their hands over you.
h ow ever desperately they may call, you cannot answer them.
however loudly they may cry, you can never recogni2e them.
for you are already well on your way to timeless darkness.
alas, you m ust make this solitary journey all by yourself.
10. h ow short, and how deplorable, is m ans life on the earth!
213 a hundred years jo y once past is ju st a springtim e dream.
soon as our breath fails, we arc already out of the world.
we are men, as long as the four elements dwell in harmony.
what is all this, then, i hear about men fighting proudly
for fame and gains, like heroes, in defiance of other men?
com e, i pray you to cast your eye through the windy gloom
over the sagebrush moors, dotted with unearthed skeletons.
108. 1 walked out of my house, and came to a shadowy hill road.
215 rows of ancicnt gravestones stood about me on either side.
among the pines and oaks, older far than a thousand years,
the wind blew, from dawn till dusk, w ith a sorrowful wail.
the writings on the stones had dimmed so through exposure,
even sons and daughters could not read the parents names.
when i saw it, hot tears rose in me, and choked my breath.
i walked off on my cane, only to retrace my steps halfway.
109. none have the skill to measure the broad highway of faith.
21 it leads on and on, and no one knows whereunto it will go.
take a stage for an end, and you can not reach even there.d ream to awake from a dream, and you m ust stay in reverie.
what if you know how to preach upon existence and vacuity?
h ow can you hold the middle way, if you see where it lies?
wordless is the mystery of this stage where i find myself
directly that mystery reaches my idle teeth, it breaks up.

110. the great highroad of faith is like a brimless receptaclc.
218 it stands infinite, and none have the skill to measure it.
the thoughts and feelings of average men spend themselves,
a nd their rights and wrongs end in m ore rights and wrongs,
in the bibble-babblc, who know s there is a mysterious way?
i walk along it, all by myself, my lips locked in silence.
should i see another road, easier than the one of nirvana,
i know how foul it w ould present itself to cloudless eyes.
111. the way of truth presents a view, much superior to others,
220 b ut m en of this w orld stand outside, forever in ignorance.
they avail themselves of causes and reasons utterly alien,
to explain the mystery which falls back farther from them.
the great man of the plum hill espied truth in a sentence.
and end succeeded his master, though called beastly blind.
men of high spirit, i urge you to keep your courage stout.
vowed to truth, do not frisk east and west like a feather.
ii 112, the w ind has dropped to a dead calm, but the flowers fall.
i 223 the birds are singing merrily, but silence rules the hill.
this is the miracle, w rought by the virtue of wise kannon.
if: inscrutable!

i 113. stay your mad quest for the rich jewels of konko and goho,
 225 for i have a spotless jew el w ithin the limits of my heart.
i beyond the sun and the moon, it shines to the darkest end.
f such is its radiance that it pierces and blinds every eye.
 w ithout it, i m ust settle in the deep sea of self-torture.
i now, my friends, i pray you, accept this jewel as my gift.
i alas, no one cares enough about it to bend his ears to me.
r i: chinese poems
114. shut within the confines of this world, there lives a man,
230 permanently above the noisy reproach of fault-finding men.
whoever may crave an interview, he will not show his face.
only through a servant, he conveys his message to a guest.
this man can raise a mountain by weaving filaments of air.
he can also create surging waves by kneading still stones.
from time to time, he walks by himself to a populous city,
and stretching his hands at every house, he begs for alms.
115. false delusion and true enlightenment sustain each other.
231 evident causes and secret reasons so merge, they are one.
from morning to dusk, i read in silence my wordless text
and, until dawn, i give myself to thoughtless meditation.
spring warblers whistle to me from wind-inspired willows.
dogs bark at me, as in alarm, far from a moonlit village.
no laws can define the great surge of emotion filling me.
how can i bequeath to posterity the heart so overwhelmed?
11. you point with your finger to denote the moon in the sky,
232 but the finger is blind unless the moon is shining there.
what relation do you see between the moon and the finger?
are they two separate objects, or one and the same thing?
this metaphorical question is asked as a handy expedient
to inspire the beginners wrapped in the fog of ignorance.
one who has learned to look into mystery beyond metaphor
knows that neither the moon nor the finger exists at all.
11. flowers have no close designs to lure butterflies to stay,
233 nor butterflies any ambition to take advantage of flowers,
but butterflies do not dally far behind when flowers blow,
and flowers bloom all at once as soon as butterflies come.
i am a mere stranger to others about me, if not to myself.
conversely, they are strangers to me as much as i to them.
yet by a set of secret laws they and i are firmly chained.chinese poems 
118. i hold in my hand a cane made of the horns of a wild hare.
234 i enclose my flesh in a garment woven of filaments of air.
i wear on my feet sandals fashioned of fine tortoise wool,
and i sing poems in my silent voice, so everyone can hear.
119. i went to rest in a wild moor, my skull on a grass-pillow,
235 still disturbed as i was by the rank cries of stray birds.
then the difference between the kings and the common herd
seemed just as absurd as the dream i saw during the night.
120. friends to help you, and teachers to lead you,
23 you m ust try to maintain more than any riches.
wealth or poverty is as short-lived as an overnight dream.
loving words alone will breathe out perfume for a century.
121. book after book you can expound to advance your knowledge.
238 far better it is, though, to hold fast to a word of truth.
what is it i mean by the word of truth, some might ask me.
it means to come to terms with your heart as it really is.
122. i sat alone, one dark spring night, already past midnight.
244 rain, mixed with some snow, poured onto the garden bamboo.
i found no means to console myself in that solitary gloom.
i reached for the holy book, written at the temple, eihei,
i lit my candle, and perfumed the air, before i opened it.
i saw in every word and phrase a precious jewel contained.
now years ago, when i dwelled in tamashima as a young man,
my former teacher at the temple, entsu,
read me the elements of this same book.
already, i had in my heart deepest respect for the author.
i borrowed the book, and practised what i learned from it.
then it dawned on me that my former work had been a waste,
so i obtained my teachers leave, and roamed far and wide.
whatever has brought together this sacred book and myself.8 chinese poems
i find, wherever i range, its teachings irresistibly true.
teacher after teacher have i sought in my past wanderings.
alas, no one gave me a lash, such as i felt from the book.
laws and doctrines have i had many opportunities to study
none convinced me so well as this book on my return to it.
we live in the age of mad confusion, steeped in ignorance.
we can hardly separate priceless jewels from false stones.
for five hundred years, this book has lain in sleepy dust,
because none of us had eyes clear enough to see its value.
for whom, do you think, the author has put down his ideas?
never take me for a cynic, applauding him at your expense.
that spring night, i sat and wept, with a light before me,
till the book on my lap was thoroughly soaked in my tears.
the following day, i had a call from an old man next door.
as soon as he saw the book, he asked me why it was so wet.
i groped for an answer, for i sincerely hoped to tell him,
but for once my speech failed me, for i had my heart full.
after a short period of bowed silence, 1 found this reply.
a leak through the roof flooded my books during the night.
itt honour of the skulls i drew on the scroll
245 whatever is bom of a cause dies when that cause perishes.
cause is tied to cause just as in a chain.
but what about the primary cause, could it rise causeless?
i searched all my heart, but i was at a loss as to the answer.
i took this sad tale to a woman in a house in the east.
she was more than displeased with my tale.
next to a man in a hut in the west
he gave me a puzzled frown, and turned away from me.
i wrote the tale on a rice-cake, and threw it to a dog.
alas, the dog rejected it, the tale on it.
i realized then the ominous nature of my perplexing words,
and so, rolling up life and death together into a globule,
i gave it to the skulls lying on the moor.
now the skulls uprose all at once in joyful ecstasy.
they sang lustily, they all danced for me.
the songs joined the three phases of time.. chinese poem by ryokan
no. 12380 chinese poems
the dance united the three stages of life.
three phases and three stages they enacted three times,
till the moon faded, as midnight was tolled from choan.
shortly after an earthquake
248 every day, day after day, yet at the return of another day,
piercing cold rent my wrinkled skin, high noon or midnight.
the sky was wrapped in pitch-black clouds that hid the sun.
whirlwinds swept the ground, rolling snow in their tongues.
then, the quake struck the sea, sent limp fishes to heaven,
blasted the earth, and drove men wailing from their houses.
as i glance back over the forty years preceding the ravage,
1 must admit the world was on the decline, fast as a horse.
accustomed to the luxury of peace, m ens hearts became lax.
they conspired in banded factions and staged ghastly feuds.
obligations were thrust out of the mind.
truthful loyalty none cared to remember.
for profits, they battled to the finish.
they mocked the truths preached to them.
too proud of themselves, they thought it business to cheat.
pile on pile, they heaped shame, and knew not where to end.
the world was so full of this beastly kind, madly plotting,
1 knew not w hom to trust, to abate my heartfelt melancholy.
in all things, decay comes invisibly until the final wreck.
the quake was but a natural outcome, perhaps come too late.
long before, the stars had veered away, though few knew it.
the seasons had been out of order, longer than any divined.
when you learn this, strike deeply into your own dark self,
and never, aping women and children, blame the world and heaven.
125. a young man, i knew, held the sunniest spot in the nation.
249 c ourt and country alike paid decorous respect to his name.
people swarmed to his house, making a noise like a market.
his many rooms were full, for he had a houseful of guests.
one word from his mouth gave wings to pleading suppliants.
a swing of his arm moved a city from one place to another.chinese poems 81
it is scarcely twenty years ago when i saw this young man.
yet today the world behaves towards him colder than frost.
12. many men i know in the world who crave this thing or that.
253 they are like blind silkworms bound fast in their cocoons.
all for their incurable desires for this-worldly hoarding,
they have lost freedom, and worry their hearts and bodies.
year after year, their native goodness loses its strength.
they become more rooted in their folly, as years multiply.
one morning, they strike out on their journey to eternity.
they must travel by themselves, not a penny to serve them.
what they have amassed, they leave for strangers to enjoy,
and their names shall be forgotten as soon as they depart.
can anyone commit a greater folly than these helpless men?
alas, they provoke infinite pity, deep in my hearts core.
12. as i look around me, to mark men in their sundry stations,
255 i see nearly all living in the way i will set forth below.
they use their idle tongues, too ready to move their lips,
yet their arms are slow to act and lag behind their words.
when there is no consistency between speeches and actions,
is it not obvious who must perforce bear the consequences?
when the hour of judgm ent comes, it will be too late then
to grind their teeth for remorse, ah, many hours too late.
128. a set of men i know who differ from others of their race,
258 in that they hold in total scorn both justice and reason.
relying solely on their own cleverness, and nothing else,
through tortuous dialectics, they reach evil conclusions.
if i tell them to curb their speech, they feign deafness.
when i whip them with my reproof, they turn away from me.
as for me, i do not mind at all if they amend their ways,
but i know so well they are hastening their own downfall.82 chinese poems
129. a handsome man i know who brings profound pity to my heart.
259 an excellent poet he is, and spends his days in deep quiet.
he has mastered the old style of the han and wei dynasties.
in the new style, he equals the poets of the t an g dynasty.
tapestry-like, words are woven into sentences by his brush.
he has the incredible skill to present startling novelties.
alas, he lacks power to depict the scenes of his own heart.
all his beautiful words have proved but a stupendous waste.
130. a solitary crane flies sublime, athwart the boundless sky.
20 wild sparrows swarm to sunny hedges, forming noisy flocks.
horned dragons shroud themselves in fathomless whirlpools.
playful monkeys flit about, high above on tapering boughs.
all living things, large and small, have their own places,
suitable to their individual nature, active or stationary.
treat an albatross to the lavish feast intended for a man
it might find the fare dainty, but never truly satisfying.
131. i have seen both court and country in my long wanderings.
22 both court and country 1 now find much as they once were.
h ow i wish i could say men as well have not altered much.
few i now find who live as upright as those who perished.
it hardly matters whether one is clothed in black or not
everyone is courting self-destruction one way or another.
once beaten bare, the broad highway of faith lies untrod,
rank grass coming up here and there to block the passage.
132. the harvest done, the field is left for the noisy crickets.
24 piles of straw set aflame, the hamlet is filled with smoke.
the hearths are lit, and farmers spend their long evenings,
plaiting straw mats, getting ready so soon for next spring.
the whole hsuse sits together amid loud cackles and laughs.
no one opens his mouth to lie, nor any to defend his truth.
totally unlike these farmers are the residents of the city
they must bend their knees, pleading, against their desire.chinese poems 83
133. all the three regions of etsu province teem with beauties.
2 they have gathered by the greenest river for a merry ball.
from their heads slant down hairpins, trimmed with pearls
their skirts fly, to reveal their rose-coloured underwear.
they nip budding grass to make garlands for young princes.
they cut flowering twigs, while flirting with noble lords.
alas, this joyous scene with all its charms stays a trice.
just so long these beauties live to sing, drink and dance.
134. h ow brightly arrayed they are, these women of a gay house.
29 h ow artfully they speak, how joyfully they beam in smiles.
all day, they court the lords and princes passing by them.
they dance upon a bank, to the east of the greenest river.
their treble songs draw the soul out of a chance listener.
their airy steps and backward glances blind the observers.
alas, gloom descends on them as it does on all the others.
shortly, they will stand in the wind, rubbing their necks.
on midsummer festival day
21 my mother had been dead some years when my father departed.
a misfortune is most likely to be followed by a misfortune.
my m others two sisters were alive, when i lost my parents.
the elder sister was called myogo and the younger, myoshin.
myoshin embarked on her solitary journey last year, in may.
myogo was still alive last year, on midsummer festival day.
a year later, on the same day, i find her gone past recall.
alas, she, too, has become a resident of the eternal gloom.
last year, i was in kyoto, and shed my tears for my father,
and i have wandered away this year to this lake-side house.
the farther away i go, the more i think of my dead parents,
though i rove along, south to north, like a wandering leaf.
now i pick herbs by the ki river, every hour and every day,
and with my wet eyes, see the banks stretching to mt. koya.
it was there, i attended the midsummer festival a year ago.
 red banners flying, the priests chanted on the holy ground.
a fresh breeze came blowing from the surrounding mountains,84 chinese poems
and drove away from our hearts the heavy dust of the world.
then, after a shower, in the sombre shadow of a basho tree,
i thought i had seen the souls of the departed, revisiting.
they all had taken so much pleasure in the sacred ceremony,
and accepted the honour accorded to them with blissful joy.
now i urge you, sweet souls, to find your everlasting rest,
swiftly crossing the river of time to the land of eternity.
13  drink with yoshiyuki, my greatest pleasure
22 seldom have two brothers a chance to meet, as we have done.
both of us now have a touch of frost in our drooping brows.
however, let us take genuine delight in the world at peace
and drink together day to day, rill we both lose ourselves.
to master shiyo, my former teacher
23 at the foot of a rough hill, there lies an old gravestone.
round it, rank weeds grow taller and thicker yelr by year.
not a relative is left to spray water over the sealed urn.
woodcutters alone pass by it, casting but cold eyes on it.
i was once a pupil at his school, a boy with hanging hair.
h ow i followed him, played with him, by the n arrow stream.
one morning i took my leave, to depart on my solitary way,
and years have passed while we both lived in deep silence.
today, i have returned here to find him laid in the grave.
ah, how could i honour with due respect his departed soul?
sprinkling but a handful of purified water over his stone,
i say my earnest prayers for his repose in life hereafter.
meanwhile, the sun on its course went apace behind a hill,
and left me alone amid the howling roar of the dark pines.
i went away many times, each time but to retrace my steps,
till at last my sleeves were quite soaked in my own tears.
4chinese poems 85
o n the death ofyukinori
13o,
25 o ur life span, however long, lasts not for a hundred years,
and we all drift along through time like a boat in a river.
o ur course has been determined by karma, a chain of causes.
few of us, though, are wise enough to take it into account.
when i was a boy, i had a couple of close friends about me.
we often played together on the banks of the narrow stream.
already, literature was our concern, and we often sat down
in an earnest conversation, not caring how time crept away.
am ong my friends, you were closest to me, and knew me best.
we went to school together, studied under the same teacher.
many a morning, we followed each other on our way to class,
and having arrived, we sat down on the floor, side by side.
one day, however, a storm rose out of the dark to sever us.
we were then parted from each other, like heaven and earth.
you had in your mind a deep aspiration for worldly dignity.
i had in my heart a secret longing to follow ancient sages.
you went eastward, taking yourself beyond the capital city.
i journeyed west to a holy temple in a province by the sea.
the west, however, was not my home, where i truly belonged.
therefore, i tarried but a few seasons, and left the place.
after years of aimless wandering, i have at last come home.
though i still live in the mountains under drifting clouds.
i seek shelter in a cottage, covered with a roof of pampas,
standing apart halfway up on a shadowy slope of mt. kugami.
the home, however, is not the home i used to know long ago.
each m orning and every night, some change occurs somewhere.
some time ago i met an acquaintance and inquired after you.
instead of replying, he pointed out a grassy hillock to me.
when i knew what it was, my breath stopped, and i was dumb.
after moments of silence, tears swelled in spite of myself.
once on a time, you were my bosom friend, studying with me.
now you are imprisoned in a grave beneath the mossy ground.
it was my daily comfort to listen to your honeyed speeches.
alas, we are now separated for ever as darkness from light.
how appallingly transitory are the three divisions of time!
how strangely undefinable are the six steps of our journey!
i took leave of the aged man who had told me of your death,8 chinese poems
and walked out of the city on my cane, away from the noise.
on each side of the highway rose a line of evergreen pines,
and beyond them, roofs of large temples pierced the clouds.
willow trees boasted of the flags fluttering in the breeze,
and roadside peaches dropped their flowers on gilt saddles.
for it was a market day, and busy swarms thronged the city,
and people marched along the highroad in a long procession.
1 watched them with a steady gaze, cherishing a faint hope.
alas, tears blinded my sight when 1 found no familiar face.
139 two poems
28o n hearing a sennon by ugan at a laym ans home
in the c ity of n iigata during my begging round
sir, you are like a butcher who hangs out a sheeps head
to boost the sale of the dog meat he hides in the corner.
yet 1 cannot but ask myself, why was it 1 sought you out
so madly, unless 1 cherished in my heart your foul smell?
1am known as an utterly useless man, lazy beyond remedy.1
walk along from one place to another, begging for food.
at last 1 have met you amidst the roar of a crowded city.
we have enjoyed a broad laugh and found our mutual peace.
140 vs f1s ugans cottage
280 the wicket is locked, and silence holds the grassy cottage.
o ut of the hollow autumn sky, leaves come down in a shower.
sparrows have formed a large bevy, and twitter on the roof
evening glow fills with after-warmth the neglected village.
i have come over hills and rivers, hoping to see you alone,
trusting myself to my crooked cane, as in my former visits.
in a twinkling, however, time deprives us of what we prize,
as a torrent carries everything away, leaving but a murmur.
141. saichi, my friend, is truly a man worthy of my best praise.
284 a great pity it is, few alive know the reach of his wisdom.chinese poems 8
once he chanced to write for me an ode in honour of buddha.
never can 1 see it without soaking my sleeves in hot tears.
142. t  saicki
28 to visit my holy teacher on his deathbed, i closed my gate,
and walked many a mile, with just a flask in my aging hand.
i saw a waterfowl flying far beyond the stretch of the sea,
and around me, hills aglow in their last colours of autumn.
shortly after the death of saichi
j t j 
289 o n this dark, drizzling day, in the dreadful month of june,
where have you gone, 1 wonder, leaving me lingering behind?
hoping to cure my loneliness, i have come to your old home,
but in the greenest hills cuckoos alone raise a loud noise.
144. o n dreaming of saichi
291 twenty years after your death, you and i have met once more,
beside a rustic bridge, in a breeze, beneath the misty moon.
hand in hand, we walked along, talking loudly to each other,
till we both came, unawares, to the village shrine at yoita.
145. the poem i made on my sick bed sounds thinner than the cricket.
293 1 cannot make out why there is so much breach of harmony in it.
whatever i may do, dainin is no more to be found in this world.
alas, no man alive now can defend my poems from grim cavillers.
14. daiten is a priest who has mastered the art of quiet breathing.
294 oft 1 met him at his temple, and found joy in our conversation.
once we were separated in kyoto, each following his lonely way.
no news has reached me since of where he lives or what he does.88 chinese poems
14. shichisei is an old friend, who rode a bamboo horse with me
295 o ur mutual respect has remained unchanged through the years.
poor he is now, as he was then, when he was but my playmate.
nonetheless bravely has he kept up the honour of his family.
148. long friendship is a thing that never gets quite forgotten.
29 on my cane, i visit my friend, chikkyu, at his rustic home.
in the greenest foliage, amid the smoky rain of wet summer,
a big peony is ready to blaze in flames of deepest scarlet.
to c hikkyu on his visit
300 listen, my friend, to the cicadas singing to die waterfalls.
look how the shower of the night has washed the world clean.
although i have none of the good things on my kitchen table,
i can treat you, if you like, to a windowful of healthy air.
to shukumon
m io kindly sent me a p a n el of potatoes
a nd pears on the second day of december
305 i walked up the hillside, hoping to collect some firewood.
by the time i returned home, the sun had sunk in the west.
upon the shelf beneath my window, i was surprised to find
a parcel of potatoes and pears placed there in my absence.
the pears were wrapped, the potatoes packed in fine grass.
attached to the parcel was a slip of paper showing a name.
living in the hills, i always find it hard to feed myself,
especially in winter, when i get only turnips for my fare,
so i lost no time in boiling the potatoes with bean paste.
the potatoes ran down my dry throat like a flood of honey.
i was at last satisfied when i consumed the third helping
though i much regretted the absence of wine and my friend.
i carefully stored in a cupboard what remained in the pot,
and took a walk, revolving in my heart what to do with it.
then i remembered an im portant day was due six days later,chinese poems 89
when it was proper to honour my altar with some offerings,
if the supporters of my belief brought me anything, be it
a borrowing from another temple or a purchase in the city.
but the fact was, with all their fortunes thrown together,
my followers could not buy a basketful at december prices.
well, we have at least the generous gift of my old friend.
we can stand the saint of the west a rich feast this year.
should anyone care to know more about it, let me tell him
pears will accompany tea, and potatoes will be boiled hot.
a defence of fujie, a physician
jj-j a poem written in his person
30 i am by nature slow in all things to learn worldly prudence.
for this reason, i have found peace, living as i do in town.
i apply moxa to m ens flesh and live modestly on the income.
having naught else to do, i face a checkerboard all my life.
to suzuki r yuzo
309 last summer, on one of those hectic days when heat burns all,
i found myself ill, my limbs numb, my stomach unable to hold.
i had strange visions, ghastly visitors from dreamy darkness.
for three long days, neither drink nor food passed my throat.
then, your kind gift, a good remedy, reached me unexpectedly.
powder so fine, so sweet in colour and smell, i had not seen.
i sat upright and with a bow of reverence, i took the powder.
it w rought a marvel in me, sending life through all my veins.
to suzuki chinzo, on his return from a journey
a. poem written in his person
311 i have just returned from my wandering to far-off provinces.
ail the ninety days of autumn spent, heaven shuts exhausted.
should anyone crave to ascertain how far i went, travelling,
come, i shall teach you by these calluses covering my soles.90 chinese poems
i 3  4 a n evening visit with jakusai at his cottage
31 my house broken, my family dispersed, i went away from home.
i have rambled since, south to north, north to south, alone.
this evening i walk again on a village road, as it drizzles,
for no other purpose than to seek you out, swinging my cane.
 a reply to a friend
319 a blazing candle in my hand, i sit down with you one night.
the tempestuous window is calm tonight, snow softly flying.
we both feel quite at ease and our hearts unite in harmony.
neither of us minds at all rights and wrongs here on earth.
15. to the nun ikei in edo on december twenty-fifth
323 in search of the holy texts, complete and m o st stupendous,
you have abandoned your home, and slave amid alien people.
having met you, i am at a loss what to say to comfort you.
in this bitter weather, pray look after yourself.
to the master of a house
15.
324 a few poems i have composed since i came here.
i have them in rough drafts for lack of money.
fair copies i want to make, and send them to shubi, if i may.
good man, let me beg of you a gift of some paper and a brush.
158. hosai is an extraordinary man, armed with a brave spirit.
325 for reasons beyond my reach, he rambled out to this area.
i came upon himyesterday amid the roar of a market city.
o ur hands cenented, we both choked ourselves in laughter.chinese poems 91
to the priests jizen and nisen
jj-g on their visit to my house
32 my cottage is situated in the low foothills of mt. kugami.
throw a window open, and rows of mountains front our eyes.
if you happen to like the hushed loneliness of this place,
i pray you to visit my sheltered gate time and time again.
stopping by the house of the priest ichigyd
32 one quiet day in autumn, i have wandered out of my cottage,
w ithout a single escort, trusting myself to a crooked cane.
red berries of wild goumi are the sole colour in the hills.
the cold river goes its way through yellow leaves of reeds.
i cross a bridge, the same i have walked across many times.
i sit in a house, the same i know well from my past visits.
but this ghastly blast that sweeps in the descending gloom
and the fatal hollow of the house are more than i can bear.
o n visiting the cloud promontory
11 with the priest tenge in autumn
329 this life of ours is so unstable that we flit through it
like rootless seaweeds drifting to and fro on every tide.
who can indeed safely trust his heart to things so frail?
it was, therefore, not without cause, nor without reason,
that i took leave of my parents, swinging my belled cane,
and marched away from my city, waving my hands to my kin.
since then, i have kept beside me a gown full of patches
and a bowl that has sustained my flesh for many a spring.
by what seems to me but a chance, i have found rest here,
and live in a grassy house, dreaming of final fulfilment.
in you, i have found a congenial spirit, so tied in love,
that we do not know which of us is the host or the guest.
at this prom ontory, the wind blows high amid lofty pines,
and frost lies cold on the last few chrysanthemum blooms.
you and i join hands together, our thoughts above clouds,
quite oblivious of what we are, standing on a wild shore.92 chinese poems
,  to issairo
12.
330 early in the morning, one of those burning days in summer,
1 sought shelter from the heat, high at a mountain temple.
in hushed solitude, by the parapet of an elevated terrace,
a gentle breeze from the pine woods fanned my sacred gown.
it was not long, as it seemed, before i saw birds go home
amid the whole range of mountain peaks aglow with the sun.
i also dragged my feet down the slope upon my bamboo cane,
and slipped into my grassy house at a most leisurely pace.
a spray of yellow leaves arrested me in front of a window,
and by a short poem tied to it, i discovered to my regret
that you had paid an unrewarded visit in my short absence.
for hours after that, sweet thoughts of you so whelmed me
that at last i took my brush and wrote this poem on a fan.
kindly accept it, my friend, a poor meed for your journey.
stopping by the house of sekizaemon
a fier die tea house t kuma tio mori
331 for years, i have known you as a precious drinking friend.
how many times we have passed our cordial cups between us.
today, i sought you again, but missed you by the fireside.
brown leaves alone come dancing down to mock my dim sight.
to the priest keizan at his temple, ganjoji
332 ganjoji is situated to the west of the village of hokkedo.
it stands by a rocky stream, half-buried in a cloudy mist.
moss grows thick in the footpaths, barring human approach.
in the garden pond, old beyond telling, scaly fishes leap.
upon the mountain ridges, lofty pines reach the sunny sky.
farther away, mt. yahiko presents its majestic silhouette.
one day in september, led by fair weather, i gave a knock
at your gate, totally unpremeditated, on my begging round.
i am a priest living beyond the pale of things and events.
likewise, you are free, sworn unto the peace of the heart.
we sat together a whole day, nothing disturbing our quiet,
except the drinks, the cliffs, our laughs, our own voices.chinese poems 93
15. priest senkei is a sacred man, seeker after mysterious truth.
333 m ute he works, his lips locked in silence.
for thirty years, he has laboured under priest kokusen,
never sitting in a temple, nor reading holy texts,
not even saying a word of prayer in audible voice.
vegetables he grows, giving them free to the villagers.
i saw him once, never seeing him in his true self,
m et him once, never knowing him.
now i pine after him, hoping to follow him in my humble ways.
priest senkei is a sacred man, seeker after mysterious truth.
a n improvisation
334 for hours, since i sat facing you, you have stayed mute.
your meaning, ampler than words, addresses itself to me.
cases removed, books lie open, scattered by the bedside.
beyond the bamboo screen, a shower falls on a plum tree.
1. walking with my friend under the moon
33 o n this spring night, the moon shines through silver haze.
you and i walk along, hand in hand, at our lingering pace.
o ur smallest whisper must have shaken them in the silence:
the ducks fly away all at once, beating their light wings.
18. a singular stroke of luck graced my bag with a copper coin
343 therefore, i have sought your presence, my sleeping dragon.
though 1 have long cherished the idea of drinking with you,
i have not had the luck of finding a coin in my bag before.
19. bird songs reach me piecemeal, a riot of blossoms on earth.
344 i opened my cottage gate moments ago to give you a welcome.
the setting sun lingers on the mossy ground in a soft wind.
riming, chins in our hands, we think beyond time and space.94 chinese poems
10. a magnificent temple towers to heaven by the eternal bridge.
34 priests rival in its halls the sermons of rocks and streams.
i, for one, would gladly sacrifice my brows for my brethren,
but i fear i might aggravate the war, already rank as weeds.
 a reply to my jriends letter
350 a short walk will take me from here to your smoky village.
yet the sleet has fixed me all the morning before my desk.
hardly a night, as it seems, since we talked about poetry,
but already twenty stormy days stand between now and then.
i dip my brush in a pool of ink, to copy the perfect hand
of the holy book you lent me, oft sighing for my weakness.
take this poem as my solemn pledge for the call i owe you.
soon as ice goes, i will swing my cane down the mossy way,
12. since i began to seek discipline at the temple, entsuji,
351 many winters and springs have i known in abject poverty.
in front of the gate stands a town of a thousand houses
where i have not a relative, nor a friend, to assist me.
i wash with my own hands the clothes covered with filth,
and allay my hunger, begging for alms from door to door.
all this is because i read in a chronicle of old saints
that poverty was once prized by soka more than anything.
13. under the roof of the entsuji temple, i often complained
352 of my utter solitude, my isolation from others around me.
bent under a pile of firewood, i yearned for noble h oon.
turning a treadmill, i sought to imitate old eno at work.
i seated myself in a lecture room before anyone else did.
i rose from bed earlier than any for the morning service.
one fatal day however, i left the temple at my own whim,
now thirty long years ago, as i look back upon my course.
a mass of mountains and a whirl of waves separate me now,
so that no news of the holy temple reach my anxious ears.
fully aware of what i owe to my teacher, i sit by myself,
shedding remorseful tears to the moaning river before me.chinese poems 95
14. on a hill behind the entsuji temple stands a shady forest.
354 drinking, i sat with you one summer day, to shun the heat.
we emptied our cask to the last drop before we made poems.
so protected, we sat there till the curfew closed the day.
in protest to the priest shakuan
against his notice of prohibition
a t entsuji
35 seven times have i known frost in the seven years of tramping.
i now find my former hourglass lifeless, its water nearly dry.
who will have mercy now upon the thirsty souls under the roof?
after my pious bow, i yearn for the old days prohibition-free.
 hearing a cuckoo in my wandering
35 springtide has returned, but i have no place to return to.
the cuckoo alone shouts to me, as if it could coo me home.
danger lurks everywhere, so long as we live on this earth,
but when will it be possible for me to find pcace at home?
o n my way to m t. koya, i found myself penniless
31 a bowl and a flask in my hand, i walk any distance, begging,
but what can i do in spring when my gown is torr to tatters?
i know full well i have not a single coin in my begging bag.
no doubt, i have erred, misled by the magic power of nature.
two poems in the heavy rain
10 o n my way to the ise shrine
32 since i left the capital city of kyoto, 1 have travelled
for a fortnight but two days, as i count with my fingers.
all this while, not a day excepted, it poured so heavily
that i drew up these meagre lines to express my sympathy
for the wild geese, beating their wet wings in the cloud,
and the wayside peach trees, drooping their red branches,9 chinese poems
and the boatmen risen to see the river banks washed away,
and the travellers, groping at night for their lost ways.
my own journey has more than half its way still unwalked,
and 1 am arrested here, my brows knit, my eyes cast down.
last year in the autumn, a rebellious storm fell upon us,
blasting pestilent breath for three days without a break,
pulling sturdy trees out of their long accustomed mounds,
blowing thatched roofs far beyond the rain-lashed clouds,
and sending the rice price above the reach of common men.
the long rain will likewise bring affliction this spring,
and if it does not stop, even while i am despairing thus,
what will the farmers do, to avoid their own destruction?
forced by the heavy rain, i sought an overnight shelter,
in despair, here by a faltering lamp in a broken temple.
what use is it now to dry my wet clothes for travelling?
better it were to lie down and ease myself with singing.
the rain beating in my tired ears all through the night,
i remained awake, my pillow forsaken, till another dawn.
19. sick at itoigawa on a rainy day on my way home
34 nothing but a gown and a bowl on me, i have wandered long.
here i am taken ill still on my road, and to nurse myself
1 sit by a window, one night, an incense burner before me.
the rain urges me to think about my ten years on the road.
the zenkoji temple revisited
loo.
35 once before, i visited this place, led by my sacred teacher,
already twenty long years ago, as i look back upon the past.
the stream before the gate and the rows of mountains behind,
with all their sublime beauty, are still as i once saw them.
chinese poems 9
lo l  on my way to yonezawa
3 the last of the geese head south, flying in lonely flocks.
i am aware of the autumn stretching all the way before me.
the mountains are stripped of leaves after the icy shower.
far away, a village lies asleep, lit by the declining sun.
a t night at the post-town of tamagawa
lo2.
3 the wind drives the rain at night, already past mid-autumn.
a traveller am i, my heart heavy with the ills of the road.
often, during the long night, my uneasy dream is disturbed
by the moaning river, taken by me for the howl of the rain.
one autumn morning
tiie parapet of the fragrant pavilion
38 granted a nights lodging here at this temple last night,
1 rise early to bow in reverence before the lotus throne.
a solitary light burning bright in the gloom of the hall,
everything seems to have found its home in the stillness.
the temple bell clangs loud, all of a sudden, five times,
and its profound echoes awake trees and lakes from sleep.
the eastern sky is already touched by the white sunlight,
but the sky above is dark and void after the rainy night.
in mid-autumnal cool, at the turn of august to september,
a morning breeze gives the whole scene bracing crispness.
by and by, lingering mists gather themselves in the dale,
and the mountaintops glow in the beams of the bright sun.
now a lofty tower is seen rising into the once empty sky,
and the roof of the main building looms behind the trees.
down the craggy cliff, rash and fierce, leaps a cataract,
its foaming waves and driving sprays flying up to heaven.
farther away, men and women are seen thronging the wharf,
and ferryboats are busy, racing one another in the river.
the shores and beaches lie half-hidden in a veil of mist,
and distant cedars and cypresses afford a feast of green.
for years now, 1 have been a lonely pilgrim, self-exiled,98 chinese poems
walking from one place to another to follow the ancients.
not until this fine morning, however, have i seen a view,
such as this, whose beauty is beyond m ans reach to tell.
scents they must have taken from the land of the blessed,
and brought them here, to perfume this fragrant pavilion.
in its chaste morning air, almost oblivious of what i am,
i make this poem by myself, and recite it to my own ears.
yet as a pilgrim, i have ahead of me miles of dusty road,
and the thoughts of the long journey make my heart heavy.
all men are subject to decay, and once i fly this temple,
will it be possible for me to return and enjoy its quiet?
half-striving to depart, yet totally unable to walk away,
i stand confounded, my crooked cane firm against the sod.
184. one night, at the end of a road lined with black houses,
33 together with a poor doting woman, i chanted holy texts.
blame me not, friends, for blotting myself thus in soot.
h ow many more nights, truly, am i granted here on earth?
 to an orchis flower
185.
38 in the deepest recess of a narrow valley stands a beauty.
in her serenity, unequalled unrivalled in her sweetness.
she heaves a soft sigh, as if she were pining for a mate,
all alone in a quiet shade beneath a tall bamboo thicket.
18. the volume of kanzans poetry in my house, i esteem more
380 than the sacred sutras or countless commentaries on them.
a brush in hand, i have made copies on my bedside screen,
and now and then, i brood on them, feasting on each poem.

18. one brilliant day in fair may, i saw on a silver stream
385 a painted barge towed upstream with a young lady aboard.
she held in her soft fingers the glory of a lotus plant,
the white of her skin vying with the pink of the flower.chinese poems 99
a bright youth came riding at a trot along the causeway.
under a rare-green willow tree, he came to a standstill
and, speechless, so fixed his gaze upon the lady afloat,
he betrayed, unawares, the fire gnawing his inward self
188. a noble youth i happened to see one fair day in a street.
38 not less than a god he seemed to me in his graceful form.
he passed by me, holding a jewel-bright whip in his hand
m ounted on horseback, he trotted away, brushing a willow.
above him, a young lady was looking down into the street.
she plucked at the strings of her harp beside her window,
and chased with her eyes the young man in the sunny dust,
all the way until he faded on the endless road to shinpo.
189. a maid there was not far from the town where i was bom.
38 she had the fame of being the finest bloom in the place.
a youth in an eastern village courted her every morning.
a noble lad in a western village sought her every night.
again and again they wrote her letters of honeyed words,
and over and over they sent her gifts of infinite value.
thus time slipped by many winters of frost and snow,
the maiden herself unable to decide which man to choose.
she could not favour one man without grieving the other.
she could not love them both without hurting her honour.
one day at length she gave herself to a bottomless gulf.
bitter fate it was that she thus had to refuse both men!
190. when i was no more than a boy, i strolled about the city,
389 always seeking pleasure in the most flourishing quarters.
i dressed myself up in a soft downy vest of duck feather,
and i often mounted a brown horse with a snow-white face.
in the morning, i rode out to entertain myself at shinpo.
at twilight, i fed my eyes on the peach blossoms at kayo.
i returned late, caring not a straw where to rest myself.
questioned, i turned with a smile to a house of ill fame.100 chinese poems
191. tw o brothers i know among my companions of my native town.
391 of the same blood as they are, they disagree in character.
one of them is clever in action and mellifluous in speech.
the other is slow in response and awkward in conversation.
but it seems right beyond doubt, as i regard the slow one,
that it is he who has more leisure than anyone can afford,
whereas the clever one runs his busy race without a break,
hastening from place to place, achieving nothing of worth.
192. within the limits of my cottage i have a cat and a mouse.
392 they are enemies, though they are both of the hairy kind.
the cat is plump, and sleeps comfortably in the sunshine.
the mouse is starved, and hunts in the darkness of night.
a darling of fortune, the cat is endowed with an ability
wherewith it can ambush and catch numerous living things.
the mouse is doomed to its misery for its criminal habit
of intruding into the house and breaking cherished wares.
broken vessels, however, can be replaced at a small cost.
there is no way of restoring living things to life again.
if you, therefore, weigh the plump cat against the mouse,
surely, the balance will betray the gravity of its crime.
 a reply to jakusais p o m on my cracked baud
393 one fine morning, i struck out on the road all by myself.
the hem of my skirt tucked up, i marched to an east hill,
where, probing a thicket with my cane, i found this bowl,
and taking it up from the grass, i washed it in a stream.
every morning, my incense lit, i eat my porridge from it.
from it i savour my soup or taste my rice in the evening.
somewhat cracked and far from perfect in form and colour,
i know full well i have inherited it from a noble source.

194 to my holy mace made of horn
394 too precious to be throw n away in a heap of useless trash,
i hold it ever in my hand, prizing it higher than a jewel,chinese poems 101
more glittering than the horns of a sable-armoured dragon
far m ore than the tusks of a rare-blue elephant, luminous.
it follows me on autumn nights to wherever i go preaching,
and on spring days it stays around me while i rest asleep.
m ost unavailing in sweeping this-worldly dust off my head,
it serves as a whip and a cheer in my hours of discipline.
195. monkeys are often seen picking lice on top of fiery asama,
395 and men striving to catch whales in the pools of the usui.
wrapped in a hempen dress, my skull covered like a hermit,
why not leap about, beating my bowl and swinging my bells.
if anyone probes me for what i am, 1 will shout in return,
o ut on the sandy beach of suma, known as a gulls brother,
i rake salty seaweeds together and, blowing, build a fire,
so i can celebrate my empty paunch and the world at peace.
19. many years ago, there rose to heaven a lofty paulownia tree,
39 in the covert nook of mt. konron in the land of the blessed.
its upper leaves were nursed by the beams of the rising sun,
its roots striking a thousand feet deep into the firm earth.
a minister came one day, the em perors message in his hands.
thus, the tree was felled, and of its wood, a harp was made,
an instrument, never to be surpassed in its graceful finish.
plucked by a master, it drowned the ears in its sweet music.
a divine harmony ruled its full compass from bass to treble
and its tonal beauty ravished the heart with chaste ecstasy.
for years now, this harp has slept in the imperial treasury,
guarded by its gilt walls, but with none to awaken its soul,
its scarlet strings hanging loose in the hollow of the room,
and its inlaid surface buried deep in a heap of piling dust.
below the autumn moon that returns every year to the garden,
and under the canopy of gay blossoms that bloom each spring,
this harp has been mute, though none were forbidden its use.
it must be that no masters alive can inspire its full scope.
after the departure of hakuga and enryo years and years ago
no one among us now can unlock the secret of this holy harp.102 chinese poems
19. one silent night, within the walls of my grassy cottage
400 i sat by myself, and awakened to life the cordless harp.
the music rose to heaven, flying above the murky clouds.
it also went down the gentle river to timeless eternity.
the entire valley about me was satiate with its harmony,
and the surrounding cliffs and woods rich in its echoes.
strangely, no one could hear the sweet music of my harp
unless he had both his mortal ears stopped all the time.
buddhas return to the world
198.
403 this is the road he travelled in his escape from the world.
this is the road he travelled upon his return to the world.
in going and coming we must march along this sacred avenue
through life and death, shiny false flowers on either side.
199. wise m onju sits upright, a fierce lion below him subdued.
404 merciful fugen is seated on the back of a white elephant.
artful myoon transforms himself into an inlaid pedestal.
learned yuima lies stretched on the cushion of his couch.
200. at crossroads and in streets, a hotei bore his sad bag
405 year after year, and yet at the return of another year.
none, alas, has known the endless beauty of this tramp.
let him go home now to heaven, where he really belongs.
201. nansen is an aged priest with a wit sharper than a drill.
408 by what seems a sheer whim he dallied long at his temple.
by fusing his own tears with some drops of a cats blood
he brightened the dawn of a glorious spring day at chiyo.
t
202. woman of women, she shone forth, her name being brightest.
409 every morning as a peddler she took her pannier to a city.
i know not whose hand had so much skill to paint her here,
divine above the reach of the world in her supreme beauty.chinese poems 103
2q2 seeing a picture of kochi h o iti
410 with an age-old cane, battered to its core by nightly rain,
and a gown threadbare like the fading veil of morning mist,
stands an aged man, whoever has a sight penetrating enough
to see him in his real self, a breath in everlasting pines.
. ebisu and daikoku
204.
411 i threw aside my golden hammer, and you, your fishing rod,
having come together one singular day by a stroke of luck.
neither you nor i knew for sure what it was we were doing.
perhaps we meant to establish, old is old, and new is new.
205 a setfr l n  aruma
412 throw n to the earth for toy, or ridiculed by a loud sneer,
not for a single instant he overcasts his cloudless heart.
if we could likewise fly beyond the pale of earthly fears
we should have, living on earth, a source of infinite joy.
, michizane in china
zuo.
413 whose work is it, this perfect sketch of divine michizane?
with the glow of sweet plum and the glory of lasting pine?
precise in each detail is the chinese court suit he wears.
by this all shall know him a god everywhere in this world.
20. none before him could possibly have stood equal unto him.
414 none after him will be great enough to stand by his side.
ah, basho, ah, basho, you tower so high,
one thousand years from now men will have to worship you.104 chinese poems
208. to the loyal forty-seven 1 j 1
415 compelled to choose between life and death, many have erred.
never before have i known a band like the loyal forty-seven.
one in thought, one in action, they have performed the feat,
for ever to be adored as the flower of the years of genroku.
a t a monument to a virtuous woman
209.
41 her mother-in-law at leisure, she toiled in a summer field.
in winter, she waited on her mother-in-law by the fireside.
the shogun decreed that professor rin blazon in every nook
the virtue of this woman who lived at the cloud prom ontory.
210.  to the image of t u j fu
41 friend of flowers, wooer of willows, he retired to kankakei.
mounted on a saddle, he often played the tippler for a joke.
half-asleep, he still dreamed of himself at the royal court.
line after line he wrote and rewrote to counsel the emperor.
  in praise of l i po
418 warm in an easterly wind, after a walk on the greenest lawn,
while fast asleep, stretched out in front of an empty table,
importuned by my good host to honour his brush and ink slab,
1 wrote thus, flushed like li po, whom 1 was told to praise.
to hachtsuke, an untouchable
212.
419 gold and silver, pelf and position, all perish like a vision.
gain and loss, surfeit and paucity, are void of significance.
high and iot alike, sacred as well as secular, are compelled
by the fatal chain of karma to rise and fall as they deserve.
this man was doomed to taste mud under the bridge of ryogoku.,
one day he threw himself into the stream to rise out of time.,
should anyone question me on his whereabouts, 1 should reply
there in the shiny disk in the river, a resident of the moon.chinese poems 105
213. nothing is nobler in dignity than the white fan before me.
421 painted, however scantly, it will be of a secondary value.
its blank sphere is so ripe with meaning, you can see all
perfectly mirrored in it, flowers, moons, and high towers.
214 prase confiiciits
422 extraordinary!
one moment, he is before me next moment, i find him behind me.
his knowledge is the fruit of long years self-discipline.
his countenance is smiling, his attitude humble and respectful.
none in his day could rival him, none after him will equal him.
the town of takko damned him for the lack of a practical skill.
shiro was reticent, when required to explain him.
great confucius, ah, great confucius, all was because
you were boundlessly great!
some fools were among your disciples, who sought
to measure you, themselves never coming near you.
15 prase k a n z an and jittoku
423 jittoku grasps in his hand a bamboo broom.
with it he sweeps his head,
dust for ever accumulating.
kanzan has before him a holy text to read,
yet he can never satisfy his soul with it.
in their times, as in ours, none wished to consult them.
they lived on the cliffs of tendai, useless as unsold goods.
what can i do now to promote their honour,
except to endure like them till m iroku comes to judge us?japanese poems, japanese poem by ryokan no. 21japanese poems 10!
21. bright as a gilt bow,
1 spring had come, bringing flowers.
begging was my aim
i walked down the village street.
i found on the way
children absorbed in their sport,
a handball bouncing.
i joined them then straight away.
and all the long day.
one two three four five six seven,
as they kept bouncing,
i sang by their side,
and as long as i sang,
they went on bouncing.
thus we sang, and thus we bounced,
one misty spring day,
sweetest of the sweet spring days,
till darkness wrapped us complete.
one misty spring day,
longest of the long spring days,
with village children,
a handball i bounced, singing,
till gloom buried us at length.
21. in the holy shade,
13 beside this secluded shrine,
children about me,
i play one quiet spring day,
praying the day have no end.
218. come along, toddlers,
1 lets march together, shall we?
to the mountainside.
wait one more day, and too late
wed reach for cherry blossoms.japanese poems
my old begging bowl,
nothing else i treasure more.
away from its floor,
once my exit made from home,
every day at dawn,
i have seized it in my hand.
every day at dusk,
i have borne it in my palms.
thus at each return
of the thread-renewing year,
ive kept it by me.
now i find it lost.
i must have left it somewhere.
standing, i wonder
how i might gain my balance.
seated, i know not
where i could settle at ease.
like the sea-tangle,
my heart is tossed by fancies.
like the early star,
i must start, and search it out,
be it in the hole
where toads lie in m urky haunts,
o r hidden beneath
those darksome clouds lingering
near the horizon,
where land and sky come together.
over the wet grass,
through the moors i must travel,
a cane in my hand,
o r else my cane staying here,
in search of my bowl.
by more than good luck, it seems,
at this same moment
someone's voice rings out aloud,
 sir, your begging bowl,
i have it, i've brought it here.
whose voice it may be,japanese poems 111
i have not the slightest guess.
taking it, therefore,
for some message from the gods,
o r for some vision
conjured up in my sealed sleep,
i run out to get
what i have been called to take.
in the nick of time
it has been brought back to me,
this old begging bowl of mine.
by the village way
i stopped for a brief moment
to pluck violets,
and quite lost it by mistake,
the old begging bowl of mine.
my old begging bowl
left behind by the grassy way,
none cared enough to steal it,
none cared enough to steal it,
my prize, my old begging bowl.
220. broken begging bowl,
my old begging bowl,
now as before, bear it high,
broken begging bowl,
my old begging bowl,
broken begging bowl,
my old begging bowl,
bear it high, and go begging,
all day and each day.
221  day  f begging in teradomari
33 madly in pursuit,
cod swim up and down the tide.
likewise in a fuss,
at the break of day,u 2 japanese poems
i sweep upward along the road,
and after sunset,
the whole landscape quivering,
downward i run in great haste.
222. heaven and ocean
4 look all but joined to my view,
and far, far above
the vast stretch of level sea,
looms sado, rock-bound island.
223. in the land of tsu,
49 niched deep in takano woods,
at an old temple,
i bent my ears all the night
to the cedar leaves dripping.
a t akashi
224.
50 gentle, salty wind,
blow softly this cold evening,
for you will find me
lodged by myself in the shrine,
half-dreaming of ancient times.
225. what a view it is!
52 and what a name for the beach,
waka no ura!
embalmed by its balmy view,
i take in the spring delight.
t
22. coming to ise,
5 seated on the quiet strand,
how i long to hear
divine tales of ancient times
amid spring waves fluttering.japanese poems 113
 h r - ' 
y
i,4
 r f
t

, i ?
i . '

8. japanese poem by ryokan no. 233, 2nd envoy
22. for a thousand years,
2 endless times a thousand years,
may your highness live.
the lush flowers of your court
have made me speechless with joy.
v.:
, 

228. there in fukui,
9 by the bridge of yatare,
all alone i saw,
rain coming down from above,
the sun shining in the sky.114 japanese poems
229. homeward if you go,
82 will you tell my kith and kin,
for their own comfort,
that at last ive walked over
the whole stretch of om i road.
230. foothills far below,
1298 m ount kugami soars to heaven.
for its dignity,
i hold it in great esteem.
upon its beauty,
i hope to feed my eyes still.
down its precipice,
trees in thick clusters grow.
along its ravines,
a pure stream runs in rapids.
no other reason
he must have had for himself,
every saint of yore,
who sought shelter hereabouts,
hoping to find peace
with himself and with the world.
far be it from me
that 1 should be thought one such,
yet never blame me
for removing myself like them.
this holy mountain
shall be my strongest defence
until the whole world ceases.
once upon a time
a saint struck out on his way,
here in this mountain.
t u p the same steep way i climb,
though 1 trail far behind him.japanese poems 115
231. in the shady nook,
100 loving the hushed quietness
of m ount kugami,
i have a while sought shelter,
nought but my cane beside me.
232. by a hundred turns
1293 i have climbed m ount yahiko.
to its highest peak
i have at last brought myself.
from its top i watch
eightfold clouds moving away,
at its very feet,
a vast sea of trees spreading.
along its ravines,
cataracts fall with whispers.
no mountains 1 know
better than this i stand upon.
no rapids run down
with sounds purer than i hear.
this is the reason
why a revered god has built
his sacred home at this spot.
step by step i rose
up the shady pine-wood road
o n m ount yahiko,
reaching at last its summit,
up the shady pine-wood road.
233. foothills far below,
12 m ount kugami soars to heaven.
at its shady foot
stands the shrine of otogo.
here i live alone
every morning and each night
o n the rugged rocks,11 japanese poems
o r through the mossy footway,
coming and going
to perform my daily chores.
before me rises,
each time i cast up my eyes,
a primeval grove
divine in its dark grandeur.
every year in may,
cuckoos return from the south,
and in noisy flocks
swell their throats in ecstasy.
when, in september,
rain comes drizzling from above,
seated by the hearth
i tear off bright maple leaves.
thus for many years,
as long as life stays with me,
here i shall live free as air.
in the shady grove,
hopping light from twig to twig,
cuckoos in a flock
swell their throats in ecstasy,
now that spring has crept away.
can i entice you
to rest your feet in my house?
over the foothills
perhaps you will come gleaning
red maple leaves all the way.
frosty maple leaves
bright in their autumnal hues,
and summer cuckoos,
1 shall keep in mind for years
and years, until my life fails.
amid holy trees,
close to the o togo shrine,
seated all alone
i hear the sacred bells ring:
perham a rail from a friend.japanese poems 11
234.
104
235.
10
23.
109
23.
115
238.
11
239.
12
at this lovely spot,
where sum m er grasses run wild,
hindered by nothing,
i shall build a small cottage
and seek a while my own peace.
o n a holy ground,
beneath the revered oak tree,
at its bulky base,
let me hold my place a while,
beneath the revered oak tree.
if anyone asks me
where is my home to be found,
my reply will be,
to the east of the fair stream
that sweeps glowing in the sky.
on the mountainside,
h ow often ive fetched firewood,
an axe in my hand,
and how often ive bent my ears
to the songs of spring warblers.
leaves i must gather,
water i must fetch with haste,
and vegetables,
this morning between the rains
that come drizzling from above.
whatever i do,
i do not ply my own trade
o r my business,
yet i have but a few days
i can soend in auiet oeace.118 japanese poems
240. in sheer idleness,
131 i sat down upon the floor
of an old temple,
and gazed vaguely before me,
raindrops pattering all day.
241. all across the sky,
14 the sun has travelled on time,
ready now to set.
many more miles i must tramp,
burdened with a weighty sack.
242. remote villages
150 wrapped in the gathering mist,
twilight descending,
i haste along the rough road
toward my house, cedar-swathed.
243. to w hom can i vent
153 my gloom on this autumn day
as it dims away?
in the crate placed on my back,
i have but some blades of grass.
244. polar wind flying,
15 icy snow has started to fall.
snow driving along,
rain has begun to come down.
in the pitchy dark,
as i listen, pricking my ears,
 lonely wild geese,
all across the boundless sky,
strive against the elements.japanese poems 119
in my grassy house,
seated at ease all night long,
i listen all alone
to the wind-shot drops of hail,
sweeping through cedar needles,
245. awake at midnight,
13 i bend my ears to the cries
of a lonely hart,
while feeling in my deep self,
my own loneliness past cure.
24. awakened at home
18 in the small hours of morning,
i am astonished
by the fresh-fed ridge cascade
leaping down the massive rocks.
24. far in the dim town,
15 hollow shells are sounded often,
alarms blown, i fear,
as dikes collapse, swamped over
u nder the weight of this storm.
248. m ount kugami,
114 some steps up its precipice,
in the holy shade,
close to the o togo shrine,
i live by myself,
each morning and each evening,
up the rocky way
climbing with a heavy burden
to gather firewood,
o r down the steep valley way
to draw fresh water.120 japanese poems
day to day, for countless days,
thus i have managed,
till at length in recent years
a sickness holds me,
and tortures me with the fear
that i m ight perish,
friendless like cicada shells,
but few days ahead
and that i m ight be laid down,
a rotten thing beneath a rock.
249. upon the dark night,
181 when will the dawn come to smile?
upon the dark night,
if the pied dawn starts to smile,
a woman will come
and wash my foul garments clean.
tossing many times
i fouled my shirts and my pants,
aching through the entire night.
250. the infinite night,
182 till at last the morning came,
i had spent fouling my shirts,
and in the daytime,
i often dashed to the back-house
alas, reaching it far too late.
251. starved by my illness,
184 not by my free choice starving,
my stomach empty,
1 m ust jong ease my sick bones,
till time lends me strength again.japanese poems 121
252. beside a slow fire,
185 i stretched out my weary legs,
and lay on my hack,
all the time feeling the chill
that pierced into my stomach.
253. all things about me,
189 years and months not excepted,
come and go in time.
why does sick old age alone
creep on me, and stay with me?
254. in shikishima,
455 otherwise known as yamato,
since antiquity
men have avoided speaking.
yet i am fully
determined to raise my voice,
because last summer
a surprise present reached me
from my good brother,
feathery fur of smooth touch,
whiter than cotton,
softer far than the best silk.
never in my house
had i treasured such a thing.
awake in daytime,
i bore it rolled round my neck.
asleep at midnight,
i stored it spread beneath me.
not for one moment
could 1 dream of leaving it,
for fear it should slip away.
yet no marvel it performed
although i waited
w ith patience for a long time.
changing my method122 japanese poems
in deep reflection, therefore,
i took the risk o f
wearing it beneath my shirt,
yes, my body shirt,
the one i slept in,
right next to my fleshly skin,
and as i lay still
i was amazed by the warmth
of the sleep i had.
so warm was the fur, in fact,
that at midwinter
spring seemed to have come to me
while i stayed dreaming in bed.
what can i send you
in return for your rare gift,
comparable only
with what i prize most in me,
my own life, my sole treasure?
about me i have
nothing proper to send you,
but my living breath.
yet, i warn you in good rime.
brag not about it, my friend.
255. o n a sunny day,
458 delving deep into thick snow,
my beloved friend,
you must have uncovered them.
little lily bulbs,
little lily bulbs,
these little lily bulbs are
t m ore tasty, than i can praise.japanese poems 123
25.
44
25.
480
258.
492
259.
48
three seaweed poems dated november 14
by the koshi sea,
o n the frozen nozom i beach,
tasty seaweed grows,
i have long missed it by me,
mourning it from day to day.
if you are lucky,
and from the nozomi beach
get any seaweed,
share it with me, my friend.
1 do not mind waiting long.
many years ago,
you and i picked together
by the koshi sea
the most delicious seaweed.
i have since remembered it.
i have tried it on,
and found it soothingly cool,
my gracious donor,
this airy hemp summer gown
you, your devoted self, dyed.
many times i heard
the ancients had treasured it,
this majestic flask,
now my own prize most precious,
b rought here by divine fortune.
from today onward
i shall never let dust fall,
but early and late
i shall watch you lovingly.
my flask, stay not an exile.124 japanese poems
20. many times over
490 i take it in my own hands,
put it down again,
and observe it far and near,
my big flask beyond compare.
21. like an evergreen,
39 youthful and healthy for life
you wish me to be,
and toasting, you drink to me
cups of merry wine,
cups of m erry wine,
and i gulp, too, till im full,
cups of merry wine.
22. for warming a house,
398 freshly constructed,
freshly constructed,
cups of joyful wine
i keep drinking till im full,
countless cups of joyful wine.
23. in a m erry group,
40 seated all night round a fire,
we drank cloudy wine,
breaking and burning dry twigs.
ah the great, great joy of it!
24. amid frogs singing,
410 we will pluck on the hillside
 fresh yellow roses,
and, floating them in our cups,
let us drink masses of toasts.japanese poems
25.
413
2.
22
2.
245
28.
253
29.
258
o n a peaceful day,
under the sky calm and bright,
i fell wine-tipsy,
and dreamed a marvellous dream,
beneath cherry trees blooming.
coming to my house,
will you rest your noble eyes
o n my broad-leaved basho tree?
a cold wind rising,
i have no means to guard them,
broad leaves of my basho tree.
be you so inclined,
come and witness at my home
h ow in plum bushes
spring warblers hop giddily,
spraying blossoms all about.
this halcyon day,
treading on the silver snow,
come and visit me.
seated at my brushwood home,
lets gossip the night away.
again and again
fishermen dive for seaweed
by the maze beach.
come likewise oft visiting.
i shall be waiting for you.12 japanese poems
20. with beloved you,
20 i sit face to face all day,
talking quietly.
if i must quit my life now,
i leave no regrets behind.
21. it is sweet of you
24 to visit me this peaceful day
with pinks about you,
step by step up the hillside
plodding in the autumn breeze.
22. high on a foothill,
283 beneath an age-old pine tree,
at its sturdy base,
we passed many friendly cups.
that day we can never forget.
23. my beloved friend,
294 for you, none other but you,
under gray heaven,
i went out between the rains,
to gather fresh spicy greens,
these.
24. at m ount kugami,
29 many steps up its steep side,
in a shady field,
i grew this big white radish.
 eat your fill, i entreat you.
25. in the shady grove
303 outside my pine-built cottage,
rain began to fall, drizzling.japanese poems 12
my beloved friend,
you must stay here in my house
a while longer till it clears.
2. stay a while longer.
304 the full moon will rise in time.
guided by its light,
w hy not walk home quite secure?
a few strides will take you there.
2. stay a while longer.
305 the full moon will rise in time,
dispersing darkness.
along your way through the hill,
sharp chestnut burrs lie in wait.
28. between may showers,
32 o ut of the clouds hanging low,
i have just arrived.
they will call me for certain
a sutra-chanting spring bird.
29. amid autumn grass,
331 feeding on the last glories,
flower to flower,
i came to your cottage gate,
half-dreaming along the way.
280. bird as i may seem,
338 shoot me not with a slingshot.
into your orchard
i have slipped over the fence
but to peck some wild berries.128 japanese poems
281. up on the alcove,
343 sunny maple branches in a vase
here at the desk,
unrolling maple-blazoned paper,
let us write poems, you and i,
in praise of maple,
and seated in this quiet home
glut ourselves with late autumn.
282. crickets all about,
355 autum n flowers still in bloom,
at this shady hut,
let me stay and wait a while
till the moon rises, supreme.
283. adrift as a cloud,
34 i have nought to hold me back,
for i am a priest.
with my heart void of desires,
i must leave all to the winds.
284. o n a vernal hill,
380 cherry blooms above our heads,
we play together,
each in accord with the rest.
let the long day have no end.
285. within a garden,
384 u nder the green willow trees,
 in a merry group,
we dance and enjoy ourselves.
let such days come many times.japanese poems 129
28.
388
28.
389
288.
421
289.
434
290.
441
in a merry group,
lets sit on the grassy bank
outside my doorway,
and watch together all night
the perfect moon in the sky.
you all sing to me.
i will in turn dance for you.
in the sky above,
with the clearest moon shining,
h ow can we stay in our beds?
my beloved friend,
you and i had a sweet talk,
long ago, one autumn night.
renewing itself,
the year has rumbled along,
that night still in memory.
to yushi iti a dream
by what dreamy way
have you reached me, i wonder,
o n this icy night,
when all the surrounding tops
hide themselves in frosty snow.
in a loud quarrel,
i chid her in bitter words,
but after a while
i started to miss her much,
and longed again to see her.291. no worldly lovers
444 have steadfast faces to show,
so it seems to me,
as each time they fall in love
they m ust speak, not hide it.
292. let silvery snow
225 heap pile on pile upon earth.
should it cease to come down,
my beloved friend,
would you perchance visit me,
clim bing up the m ountain road?
293. at a holy shrine,
52 halfw ay up its steep slope,
i stand and gaze all alone
in astonishment
at the heap of chaste snow,
fresh upon the sacrcd oaks.
294. amid rem ote hills,
528 d ow n on sedge stubs withering,
snow everlasting,
snow everlasting,
comes in silence from the sky,
scarce seeming to stay 50 long,
snow everlasting,
snow everlasting.
295. in soft spongy snow,
539 w rapped entire in its fullness,
stands the universe,
and within its boundless space,
soft spongy snow keeps falling.29.
525
29.
543
298.
558
299.
54
300.
5
301.
5
o nly a few days
since calendar spring began,
and yet already
frozen icicles by the eaves
t haw and melt away in drops.
f
glorious moon above,
let me this peaceful evening
pluck at my pleasure
plum blooms to adorn my hair,
this peaceful spring evening.
beyond the hedgerow,
beating its wings in the yard,
a cock crows loudly,
thinking himself just as sweet
perhaps, as the spring warbler.
outside my cottage,
perched in the grassy footpath
between the paddies,
a wagtail strains her windpipe,
now that spring has come again.
purple violets
blooming all over the field.
to a joyful lark
i bend my ears all day long,
yet i have not had my fill.
over many hills,
along a green m ountain road,
i plodded alone,
when all at once by a brake
a pheasant sent forth a cry.132 japanese poems
302.
59
303.
50
304.
58
305.
05
30.
08
30.
21
of its own accord,
my heart is enlarged with joy,
upon a spring day,
while i sit and watch at ease
a flock of songbirds at play.
all across heaven,
ample as snowflakes flying
before a tempest,
conies down in a white shower
a shroud of cherry blossoms.
on m ount kuganii,
in koshi, my sweet homeland,
i sit all alone,
feeling spring in the rustle
of evening air in my sleeves.
by a stroke of luck,
in the peach blossom season,
at its very peak,
i watch here at this village
a stream aflame with blossoms.
in a lonely place,
a darksome hill on one side
and a moon above,
i scan far off in dim light
snowy blossoms of wild pear.
f
purple violets
in my broken begging bowl
and dandelions
put together for contrast,
i sav nravers unto buddha.japanese poems 133
308. amid woody hills,
2 in a detached field high up,
a bevy of girls
are busy transplanting rice,
their songs flying far away.
309. many hills around,
33 in a mountain field high up,
i see an old man,
bent beneath his water pail,
walk back and forth all day.
310. not for a moment
42 can i find peace for myseif.
wherever i stay,
i am of late forced to hear
cruel tales about the flood.
311. at my shady house,
4 my two legs stretched lazily,
i find endless joy
in hearing the summer frogs,
singing in a hillside field.
312. proudly imposing,
124 the nozum i hill soars high.
today at my whim,
i hiked over its tall ridge,
and saw before me,
hung up like the white linen
women wash and dry,
a sheet of deutzia blossoms
in glorious bloom,
while my ears were astounded
by sum m er cuckoos,134 japanese poems
their season now come again,
singing loudly in the woods.
ravished totally
by summer cuckoos singing,
fondly a-dreaming
till darkness came over me,
i stood alone in the woods.
313. hilltop to hilltop
0 they must have followed along,
the summer cuckoos
singing shrill upon the trees,
fluttering their wings in joy.
314. a short interval
8 between the wet rains of may
enticed me away.
walking to the green paddies,
i found a cool wind sweeping.
315. beyond and across
84 the towering bamboo groves
beside my cottage,
a wind came swelling along,
whispering soft to my ears.
31. the weaver in love
8 must be standing on the bank,
tonight in heaven,
 prepared, as the legend says,
to receive her dear herdsman.japanese poems 135
31. rasy underskirts
89 flying in the autumn breeze,
tonight in heaven,
the weaver must be waiting,
the starry stream before her.
318. asleep, i fancy,
92 awake, 1 probe with my eyes
the divine weaver
and what she might be doing
with her lover, love-making.
319. proudly imposing,
04 a mountain looms in the west.
on its crest how much i wish
a barrier gate,
that i m ight arrest the moon,
while it glitters in the sky.
320. o n an open ground,
08 some steps up m ount kugami,
i watch all alone
the moon rise above the pines
the whole scene ablaze at once.
321. by my grassy house,
11 brushing its low, humble roofs,
stands a basho tree.
the moon rests upon its leaves,
now the night is well advanced.13 japanese poems
322. everyone fancies
15 he has gone out of the world,
much as i do now,
watching the moon glittering
supreme in the cloudless sky.
323. as the wind rises,
18 dewdrops come glimmering down,
and pliant pampas
soon divide themselves to let
the moon nestle there a while.
324. in days old as gods,
30 when concord long forsaken now
held the world over,
there lived an ape, and a hare,
and a fox besides,
all bound in honest friendship.
awake at sunrise
they played on hills and moors,
and in the evening
side by side they lay sleeping.
thus for many years
they lived together as friends,
till high in heaven
the sovereign heard their fame,
and wished to behold
what he had heard others say
in his own person.
thus, disguised as an old man,
feeble and sickly, -
came stumbling towards them
and demanded thus,
if my old ears can still hear,
differing in kinds,
you live united in your hearts
as one m erry band.japanese poems 13
still, if you want to back up
the name you enjoy,
then raise me out of my slough
and heal my hunger.
so saying, the old man dropped,
releasing his cane.
anon the three went their ways,
but after a while,
the ape returned from the hill
rising high behind,
healthy chestnuts in his hands.
he was soon followed
by the fox who came with haste
from the stream before,
some live catches in his mouth,
all for the old man.
now the hare alone leaped about
flying everywhere,
but when he at last came home
nothing in his hands,
the old man denounced him hard
for his ill nature,
his lack of truth in his heart.
in his deep remorse
the hare soon contrived a plan,
and said to the ape,
will you climb the hill again
to get some branches?
and to the fox,  can you build
a bonfire for me?
the two obeyed as true friends
should in such cases.
then, into the flame, the hare
threw himself, alas,
making for the strange old man
a great sacrifice.
as soon as the old man learned
the hares loyalty,his heart choked for deep pity,
he cast up his eyes
straight towards sacred heaven,
and weeping aloud
he flung himself on the,ground.
after some moments
the old man struck his breast,
and said to himself,
i now perceive the loyal three
are equally true,
all trusty friends in sad need,
and yet among them,
it was the good hare that made
the best sacrifice.
so saying, the old man brought
the corpse of the hare
to the bright hall of the moon
and buried it there.
this, as i have heard men tell
through generations,
is why on the cloudless front
of the shiny moon,
we have a hare placed in glory,
and each time i hear
this tale so well known to me,
i cannot help soaking
in the warm tears from my eyes
the sleeves of my sacred gown.
mortal as he was,
once a hare offered himself
before an old man.
how my soul pines after him,
hearing his tale once again.
 one mid-autumn night,
watching the bright moon above,
of its own accord
my heart turns to the old tale
i have learned time after time.japanese poems 139
true as a mirror,
a humble heart taught itself
a great sacrifice.
that heart must be commended
through countless generations.
325. after long waiting,
3 when a pine-cricket begins,
h ow moving it is
to hear a bell-cricket sing
as if in answer,
waving its wings in the grass,
alas, wet with autumn dew.
32. i have long waited,
52 but at last it must have come,
mild autumn weather,
for high on the mountainside,
cool-voiced dusk-cicadas sing.
32. my grassy cottage
5 is at the back of your house,
among dewy fields.
each evening by the hedgerow,
an endless choir of crickets.
328. o n this grassy hill,
8 bush-clovers and pampas blooms
let me snatch at will.
i, for one, care not a straw
if my holy robes are stained.140 japanese poems
329. buried as if lost,
 so that i must look for it,
this deserted way,
covered up by bush-clovers,
none else on it but myself.
330. o ver autumn hills
9 i have come my distant way,
and of a sudden,
tall lacy flowers greet me,
waving in the morning dew.
331. in an autumn gale,
88 pliant pampas grass waves so,
that i mistake it
for breakers along the beach,
sweeping in the evening dark.
332. just for my solace
801 i have walked out of my home,
yet for the flowers
lush in the autumn grassland,
somehow i have lost my heart.
333. in the autumn field,
804 treading on the leaves of grass,
a young girl walks by herself,
w hoeer she may be.
her bright scarlet underskirts,
 can she ever keep them dry?
334. o n the autumn moor,
80 glowing with the setting sun,
amid late flowersjapanese poems 141
let me stay with butterflies,
rapt in a dream of one night.
335. going and coming,
814 i watch, each time admiring,
never satisfied,
the shiny dewdrops clinging
to pampas leaves by my gate.
33. dark melancholy
832 invades my heart in autumn,
when i sit alone,
hearing a cold shower pour
d own upon rustling bamboos.
33. at my grassy house,
220 you promised to view with me
red autumn maples.
i have therefore long waited
for you to appear,
standing up or else reclined,
always impatient.
yet you have not come to me.
every day at dawn,
frost lies thicker and thicker,
and every evening,
rain falls colder and colder,
and often enough,
a chilly wind comes blasting,
so that i much fear
the maple leaves will perish,
and once blown away
they are gone past retrieving.
of lasting maples,
stable in their scarlet hues,
durable in forms,142 japanese poems
i have never heard them tell,
either in annals
from the age of ancient gods,
o r in rustic tales
passed on through generations,
o r in chinese books
for learned scholars to read.
thus wondering deep
while hourly waiting for you,
led to my w its end,
1 could not help cutting off
these maple twigs by my gate.
by my grassy gate,
i have yet some maple leaves
in their summer hue,
still waiting for your visit,
in spite of the chilly frost.
in the frosty dew,
deep-dyed in glowing colours,
maples dazzled me.
i was forced to cut them off,
fretting and longing for you.
338. if my sacred gown
833 had sleeves truly big enough,
i would surely spread it out
over the hillside,
to shelter beneath its shade
red maple leaves on the hill.
339. all green everywhere
840 they appeared to me in spring,
early budding leaves.
now , matured by the autumn sun,
not one looks the same in hue.japanese poems 143
340. this autumn morning,
841 hidden in the gathering mist,
maple leaves alone
can be descried now and then,
here at this mountain temple.
341. across and beyond
842 the tall mountains of autumn,
i have come along,
hush maple leaves around me,
so bright as to light my way.
342. careless is the dew
849 that gathers on autumn leaves.
h ow careful they are,
the leaves diversely coloured,
each in keeping with its kind.
343. distant or nearby,
85 rid of all the maple leaves,
lofty ridges rise,
the dim, open sky spreading
high above, void of all joy.
344. amid forest trees
81 there on the hill opposite,
a little stag stands alone,
late in october,
while heaven weeps fitfully,
wet in the drizzling shower.t
144 japanese poems
345. in lowering dark,
88 some steps up m ount kugami,
all of a sudden
i heard a stag on the ridge
belling sweetly to its mate.
34. late in october,
89 when frosty showers drizzle
yesterday, today,
for many days without cease,
outside my cottage,
battering down maple leaves
in such profusion
that every walk by my house
is deeply buried,
nightly seated by the hearth,
a kettle boiling,
i rip and burn dry branches
in sheer solitude,
while on the ridge opposite
a wandering stag
bells longingly to its mate
in icy darkness.
no doubt i know well enough
from my yesterdays
that life is merely a dream,
and yet in no way
can i give ease to my heart
in this sad season.
over my matting, therefore,
i spread my clothes,
and he down upon the floor,
when an icy wind
 directly from mountain tops,
comes attacking me
through many holes everywhere.
then i wrap myself
....... . ............................................................................................................................................. ...................... a...- ----japanese poems 145
with all the robes in my house,
and with my face hid,
trembling and tossing about,
i stay in my bed
in the dark of a cold night,
my eyes perfectly sleepless.
one night in autumn,
the loud cascade by my house
is silenced at last.
perhaps, on the mountaintops,
snow has piled in heavy banks.
34. over and across
120 the slopes of m ount kugami,
i have come along
at twilight in late autumn.
down in the valley
maple leaves are scattering,
and on the ridges
sad stags are heard belling.
i am just as sad,
yet i do not raise my voice
i watch in silence
red maple leaves scattering,
my heart full of melancholy.
348. frosty autumn wind,
884 blow but gently, if you will,
at my grassy house.
here, it is lonesome enough
w ithout the din of the wind.14 japanese poems
349. amid frosty hills,
893 in a mountain field high up,
a handful of ducks
is heard to cry in the dark,
now autumn has run its race.
350. lifted high above,
910 some steps up m ount kugami,
i live by myself,
confined by midwinter snow
falling every day
o ver the hills and valleys.
not a single bird
sings aloud about my house,
and every footway
for villagers to stride on
is deeply buried.
thus in complete seclusion,
behind a fast gate,
my soul entirely consigned
to the cataract
running down the icy slope,
endless as a rope
made by deft hands in hida,
every day, for days,
each year, as long as i am,
i live here confined alone.
now it seems to me
high on the mountain ridges
icy snow has come,
for the stream upon its way
has ceased its daily tnurmur.

351. on my begging trip,
925 i have not seen the village
for many days now.japanese poems 14
today, as through yesterday,
snow fell ceaselessly on me.
352. h ow many more days
933 must i bide before springtide?
time and time again,
n um bering the days and months,
i look out for the fresh spring.
353. no m atter how loath,
934 i must perforce say goodbye
to the going year.
h ow is it my thoughts alone
stay, unlike everything else?
354. seeing men quarrel
93 o n the last day of the year
like sworn enemies,
i find them more depressing
than at any time year round.
355. w hat reason you had,
939 when you ran away from home,
like your holy gown
keep it ever in your heart
deep-dyed in the sacred hue.
35. amid frosty hills
942 stands all alone a scarecrow,
as if cast away.
even he is thought to shield
the bird gleaning beside him.148 japanese poems
35. seeing others slip,
945 think that you must also err,
and do not cavil.
if you wish to know yourself,
use them as your looking glass.
358. yellow roses blow
952 in single or double blooms.
double the double
a hundred times, if you will,
still the single is singular.
359. in the morning dew,
955 rising clear above the pond,
lotus flowers blow.
likewise, unspotted by dust,
true worthies rise innocent.
30. solemn, i was told,
95 some stood on the holy ground,
and i often took
them to be such as i heard of.
tested, none withstood my eye.
31. many years ago
90 i fell to a lightless path
wholly unawares,
when i saw a moon go down,
bright in the akata hills.

32. not for a moment
94 can i find ease in my heart,
seeing everywhere
men engaged in mortal feuds,
causine a worldwide discord.japanese poems 149
33. by the riverside,
90 standing alone late at night,
did i then expect
to see the glowing full moon
just behind the weeds adrift?
34. let it be adored,
93 the loud bell from the temple.
once it awoke me
from the vainglorious dream
of the world i had relished.
35. amid wooded hills,
95 hard beside a mountain field,
i have my cottage,
and from morning till sunset
i beg for my food,
d oor to door, in the village
and in the evening,
soon as air starts quivering,
my door firmly shut
against the frosty hill-wind
sweeping all about,
i stay by the crackling fire,
and muse by myself
o n the past long lapsed away.
the world then seems a dream.
3. brood upon the past.
9 the past is but a short dream,
gone in a twinkling.
the present is yet more frail,
more dreamlike in its brevity.3. like cicada shells,
984 this w orld is hollow inside.
real it m ight seem,
but it is empty throughout.
this is the reason
i wrapped myself in a gown,
and shedding away
my hair from my naked head,
for days in a row,
like a cloud floating above,
i have roved along,
w ithout breaking my journey,
and like a river,
homeless, in all my roamings.
often at a shrine,
more often in a straw house,
i slept by myself,
a bout hum an rights and wrongs
caring not at ail,
my heart wholly surrendered.
yet it is a marvel
puzzling to myself
that i have torments within,
far too depressing
to be quenched by other men,
and so ponderous
that i cannot turn them out,
nor in any speech
can i state them well enough.
the deepest abyss
beside the plunging seashore,
and the lofty hill
with its commanding summits,
will be in due time
flattened to a level ground.
my torments alone,
do what 1 can to slake them,
remain unchanged and rooted
within the core of my heart.far away from men,
my gate shut w ith a w ood bar,
i live all alone,
yet som ehow, w ithin my heart,
sore torments are gnawing me.
t
38. of the hollow world
98 i have heard some m en complain,
and priest as i am,
more alive than trees or rocks,
1 feel my heart sore oppressed.
39. now that i am hurt
989 by the anguish of the world,
away in die hills,
1 would presently lie down,
like a dead tree or a stone.
30. since antiquity
100 it has always remained there,
where i behold it.
yet few have marchcd along it,
this covered walk before me.
31. pheasants cry aloud
1009 beside this ancient footpath
o n a burnt m oorland.
who will now follow the wise
who travelled here long ago?
32. icy winter streams
1011 frozen stiff dow n to their beds
will finally thaw.
yet, the hearts of mortal men
stay fast-frozen all the time.33. like honest bamboos
1023 the virtuous stand straight up,
in spite of the world
where deceitful tricks flourish
and ill winds hum ble our heads.
34. like a w ater weed
1028 i drift along here and there,
d riven by the tide,
so that i dont care a straw
if you all call me bad names.
35. one midwinter night,
1033 wrapped in a thin hempen gown,
shivering and tense,
i wondered what i could spare
to help people in their needs.
3, living all alone,
1040 i do not fly from the world.
yet somehow i am
much more suited, by nature,
to seek pleasure by myself.
3. like the rivulet
1041 running down in a trickle
in a deep forest,
i live here in quiet peace,
hidden away from the world.
38. seated in a shade,
1045 i watch silver clouds arise
and bury hilltops.
what other gate have i here
to bar me against the world?39.
1052
380.
105
381.
102
382.
10
383.
108
to a blank white jan
searching in earnest
whether deep in my own heart
i have a selfish will,
1 find my heart wholly blank, 
nothing but air blowing there.
no m ore apt emblem
the w orld has to show itself
than the weak echo
t hat expires, as soon as born,
w ith not a trace left behind.
o h my begging round, i went to
m akiyama on february tenth.
standing in the field where once
stood the home of my friend,
arittori, and seeing plum blossoms scattering,
i was reminded of the bygone days
o nce upon a time,
seated beneath a plum branch
we drank together,
sweet petals in our winecups.
no w they lie useless on earth.
my hair glorified
w ith a spray of budding plum,
1 mused all alone
o n the past long gone before,
how dear you were once to me.
u pon twilight hill,
there is an ageless pine tree.
if it had a voice,
i w ould no doubt hear from it
all that it has know n before.154 japanese poems
384. wholly unawares
1090 i was thrown to the bottom
of abysmal tears,
seated, facing an old book,
reading about bygone days.
385. the running rivers
1091 can be checked by making dams.
the towering hills
will be made flat by digging
little by little.
yet days and months, if gone,
are beyond recall.
none of the marvellous books
witness otherwise,
nor have i heard a man speak
contrary to this.
it must have been so, i think,
always in the past,
while doubtless it is so now,
and so it shall be
for numberless years to come.
then of all evils
the worst that can fall to us
is no other than creeping age.
h ow obligingly
they come seeking after me.
hidden far away,
deep inside a grassy house,
i can not escape the years.
381. within the garden
1104 a plum tree is in full bloom,
unmindful of me,
who spend in resigned silence
the last hours of my journey.japanese poems 155
38. have i, really,
110 any friend who will help me
to forget my age?
i wondered alone, the night
i left my cane by mistake.
388. had i been aware
1111 that the years were after me,
upon the highway
i would have put a fast gate
to lock them away from here.
389. so many reports
1119 of the land of lasting joy
have edified me,
yet never can i get there,
not knowing the road to go.
390. a tale too sacred
1124 to tell with my own tongue,
a legend too true
to relate in mortal speech:
once upon a time,
a sovereign in high heaven
detected at night
a silver hair on his head,
and early at dawn
called a minister of state,
and directed him
to fetch a pair of clippers
glowing in silver,
and to cut his silver hair
and put it within
a big chest of silver sheen,
and the sovereign15 japanese poi
at his death ceded the gift
to his successor,
and he in turn at his death
left it as a boon.
thus, always from son to son,
endlessly in line,
1 heard it was handed down,
the silver hair above price.
respect it in awe,
the silver hair on your head.
divine in its birth,
it has deigned to honour you
in your extreme advanced age.
do not despise it.
it could well come a herald
from the underworld,
to call you out to darkness,
the silver hair on your head.
not for a m om ent
hold it in worldly contempt.
now if not before
learn to adore in your heart
the silver hair on your head.
of all the riches
that i can find in the world
nothing can equal
in price, no m atter how dear,
the silver hair on your head.
391, every winter night
1129 icy frost comes to the ground,
and yet at sunrise
it melts, nowhere to be found.
each year in winter
snow comes on us, piling up,
yet it thaws awayjapanese poems 15
392.
1135
393.
113
394.
1142
as spring sun begins to smile.
contrary to these,
the snow that covers our heads
grows the heavier
the more we advance in years.
renewing themselves,
let the years run without end.
that snow shall never go away.
newly fallen snow
will melt away in due course.
on the contrary,
the snow that ices our heads
turns more silver every year.
shortly ajier the death of saichi
people come and go
o n the village thoroughfare,
numerous as sand on a beach,
and yet among them
not a young man looks, alas,
like the one i knew so well.
bright as a gilt bow
spring had blown many flowers.
i went out to the fresh field
to gather some greens,
yet i could not fill my crate,
for no more were you with me.
to mitsue, after his death, with a wreath
once upon a time,
seated on a rough straw mat,
together with you,
i watched the autumnal moon
glowing all night in heaven.395.
1144
39.
1152
39.
1154
398.
118
399,
1188
a s a boyf i used to have a close jrictid.
h e left his home, and went to live
in a z u m a . w e remained out o jtou ch
fo r m any years till i heard of his death
h ad i know n it thus,
1 would have sent you my word
through a traveller
who w ent his way towards you
years before it grew too late.
m ie n the village was hit by the plague
som ehow forgetting
it was the way of the world,
1 found it awesome
t o see co u n tless p eo p le die,
fast as the leaves blown away.
hoping against hope
for the deceased souls return,
i tarried all night,
my co tta g e d oo r left w id e -o p e n ,
watching the bright moon above.
before or after
hardly matters in my view.
sooner or later
wc m ust abandon the w orld
hollow like cicada shells.
for the parents w ho are to commemorate
the first anniversary o f
the death of their baby
just one year ago
we snapped off to amuse you
a tiny plum spray.
this year, we break another
to decorate your gravestone.400. i stood and i sat
1192 in my vain attempt to bring
q u ie t to my self,
and yet like the sea-tanglc,
my soul sank in a deep mire.
i
401. in koshi, my land,
1218 a t the m arsh called mishima,
many have told me,
birds float asleep together
their wings united in peace.
t o see the jiv e shadows truly as such
fs the first step toward blissful peace
1231 this w orld is em pty,
dreamlike in its transience.
endless it may seem,
like a pheasants dow ny tail,
trailing for ever
yet look beneath the surface,
for a h u n d red years,
o r else, for a thousand years,
over the long past,
and the route of our descent
slowly uncovered,
we shall find it forking off
a t every junction
so that we can never trace
o ur true ancestry.
thus standing up, we see not
w hat is to be done,
nor can we rest well, seated.
like a cast-off gown,
o u r thoughts run in a tangle,
o r like clouds above
o ur m inds drift in heaviness
and, too astonished,wc can neither talk nor move,
but as ducklings do
o n the b o u n d less sea, w e w a il,
o r as stray birds do,
we rack our throats for ever
w ith sig h s u n en d in g .
yet i search within my heart
a way out of this.
as a boat anchored in a port
embarks on its way
o ver the deepest ocean waves,
directly her cables are released
and all her hawsers rent asunder,
unbridled like air
o r as lofty grasses
rising in the shade
under the spreading branches,
cut by huge sickles
or by sharp scythes,
are swept off apace
so in a like manner,
if we get rid at one stroke
of the five shadows
that make us this empty world,
seeing them as such,
then without the least worry,
nothing to prick us,
we will surely live at ease,
here on earth, until our end.
empty as we are,
how hard it is to perceive
our own vacuity.
void is all we need to know
of flesh, hearts alone holy.
in the land of tsu,
no matter how they may bloom
at blithe naniwa,
alter not therefore your way,
but proceed to your own goal.403. asked by anyone
123 if ryokan will leave behind
a farewell poem,
tell him one word of prayer
will suffice me at my death.
?
404. numbers on water,
1255 a wind will blow them away
all in a moment.
much sooner it will vanish,
our own daring self-conceit.
405. in koshi, my land,
1303 at the beach called kakuda
many young ladies,
every day at dawn,
cheering each other, carry,
or at sunset, heat,
ocean brine to obtain salt.
this is surely why
the name of this uphill way
has for eycr been
salt hill road and no other.
it runs to the sky ,
looking down a steep valley.
here horses falter,
threatened by its precipice.
even clouds linger,
not able to pass its height.
this road, however,
has been flattened recently
to a marked degree.
w ho had the marvelous skill
to do such a feat,
whether he came from heaven,
sent down by a god
to assist poor men on earth,
o r he came to us12 japanese
40.
1305
a helper from buddha's land,
or if his feat is
just a twinkling of a dream,
or a fact lasting,
i rejoice too much to know.
at a complete loss
what to say or what to do,
watching all alone
the salt hill road remedied,
i propose prayers of thanks.
no longer bitter
in its breathtaking ascent,
as in former days,
the salt hill road remedied.
our debt we must not forget.
at teradomari
on a temple ground,
on a temple ground,
in front of its stately hall,
lofty trees aspire,
for how long no one can tell,
lasting in respect,
god-like in their sturdiness.
in a humble house
beneath these reverent trees,
i seek my shelter,
and each morning and evening
i come out walking
here where giant trees tower,
and for many hours
i watch, never feeling tired,
these lofty trees above time.
as raging billows
break against a rocky beach
again and again,
so countless times visiting,
i admire the ageless trees.japanese poems 13
40. at kugami,
1314 there rises before a temple
a lofty pine tree.
its upper branches
cast a deep shadow beneath.
its middle region
embraces the nests of birds,
and its lower arms
rub the tiles of the temple.
w hether in winter
deadly frost may fall on it,
o r in late autumn
tempests may come attacking,
it stands unshaken.
since the days of holy gods,
so much respected,
this old pine without a peer,
heaven-high on m ount kugami.
408. at lwamuro,
1315 quite alone in a rice-field
exists an ancient pine tree.
this rainy morning,
soaked in the heavy drizzle,
it stands as if cast away,
and left to itself,
if it were like us, i trust,
it would surely need a hood
and a warm raincoat as well,
my forsaken pine tree, alas.
409. far out in the sea,
1328 the high hills of sado loom
thin as an eyebrow,
and near me, the evening sun
glitters upon the spring sea.14 japanese poems
410. within my garden
133 i grew autumn bush-clovers,
along with pampas,
pansies, golden dandelions,
a tiny silk-tree,
a plantain, morning glories,
hemp agrimonies,
an aster, moist dayflowers,
and forget-me-nots,
and early and late each day,
never neglecting,
i fed them with clear water,
defending them from the sun,
doing what 1 could for them.
by common consent
my good plants were exalted
above the others,
and i believed so too myself,
yet destiny desired
that one evening in mid-may,
o r more precisely
at dusk on the twenty-fifth,
came a huge tempest,
assaulting my garden plants
with mighty anger,
pulling them down with fury
and without pity
poured upon them heavy rain.
and all my flowers
were ruined, torn to pieces,
for days thereafter
my heart sank in depression,
yet no help i found,
for it was useless to blame
 the wind above our reproach,japanese poems 15
411.
1344
my garden flowers
i planted and nursed myself
with genuine love,
i m ust learn to resign them
to the pleasure of the wind.
to arinori
on the last day of the year
close to nosumi,
there was an ancient temple,
and in its garden
a beautiful plum tree stood.
it was your design,
branches and roots together,
to steal it away.
so one quiet spring evening,
over rocky hills,
scaling slowly step by step,
by a secret road
you came to the temple hall.
that moment, alas,
villagers spied your design,
rang the holy bell,
beat the drums as if in war,
and fell upon you,
all about the mountain side,
in one noisy rout.
ever since this fatal night,
as a flower thief
you have won lasting renown,
wherever you went.
nonetheless, as time passes,
people grow weary
of all they hear and behold.
perhaps, nowadays,
left alone in perfect peace,
at your grassy hut,1 japanese poems
twisting endless times over
your prodigal beard,
you may be musing all night
at the dead end of the year.
412. bending my fingers,
1352 i count time and time again
the days gone away
since my husband was buried.
today, i find out
eight years i have expended
in sheer solitude,
slaving in a blighted house.
woman though i am,
finding no comfort nor ease,
working like a man,
i have gained nothing, alas,
but sad afflictions
which day after day gnaw me,
till like a shadow
i look lifeless in my glass.
thus i am informed
of the downright hollowness
of the empty world,
and of my flesh dead, alive,
in its sinful doom.
endless times day after day
i seek speedy death
in my helpless wretchedness,
each time prevented
by the intense love i bear
toward my children,
so that at a loss
 what to speak or what to do,
just hiding myself,
i rack my throat in wailing
early and late without rest.japanese poems 1
a glass in my hand
i spent the whole day again,
watching all alone
the shade reflected therein,
the pale face staring at me.
nothing whatever
is more helpless than i am,
i have lately come to know,
and grow on that very score
the more dismally helpless.
in reply to okura's poem
against living in seclusion
135 mortal beyond help,
o ur hearts stay at variance.
o n that very score,
each in his foolish fashion,
proud of his glory,
puts forward his principles
in books so legion,
none can ever read them all.
more so than others,
in the goodness of my heart
o r in verbal skill,
i am weak, and am therefore
averse to preaching.
yet what everyone must know
i must speak aloud
that no one may swerve away,
and that is to say,
your ageing parents,
your wife and many children,
all your relatives,
you must completely forsake,
and pious of heart,
early and late without rest,
you must meditate.18 japanese poems
that, and no other,
i believe, is the right way.
yet upon the earth
few have force enough to do
as they truly must.
therefore, to encourage them,
o r to entice them,
leaders have said otherwise
in different books.
by a lucky chance,
you happened to peruse once
a book of this kind,
and held it self-sufficient,
complete in itself
now i charge you to tell me
with clean honesty
if you plead innocent still,
my well-read scholar, okura.
dewdrops on a lotus leaf
poems exchanged between r ydkan
and teishindewdrops o n a lotus leaf 1!
on hearing about my master's ball-bouncing
this and no other
seems to me the rightful way.
you walk along it,
gleefully bouncing your ball,
this endless road before you.
my masters reply
try it, if you will,
one tw o three four up to ten,
and again it starts.
you, too, can march along it,
this endless road before you.
on seeing my master for the first time
having met you thus
for the first time in my life,
i still cannot help
thinking it but a sweet dream
lasting yet in my dark heart.
my masters reply
in the dreamy world,
dreaming, we talk about dreams.
thus we seldom know
which is, and is not, dreaming.
let us, then, dream as we must.
late at night after a long conversation,
my master wrote
o n our sacred sleeves
dew has gathered thick and cold.
on this autumn night,
the full moon reigns high above,
matchless, in the cloudless sky.12 dewdrops o n a lotus leaf
i wished to stay longer by his side
face to face with you
i would sit for countless days
and for endless years,
silent like the cloudless moon
i admire with you this night.
my masters reply
changeless if you are,
steadfast in your sacred faith
long as a creeper,
endlessly, for days and months,
we shall sit down side by side.
poems exchanged at my leave-taking
no doubt, i will come,
since you kindly cheer me thus,
if i have nought else
but the rank grass by the road
to guide me through my journey.
do as you have vowed,
and come to my thatched cottage,
if it does please you,
searching your way step by step
through pampas leaves dew-laden.
my master sent me the following poem
after some days
have you forgotten,
o r the road lost all too jsoon?
for many days now,
though i have waited each day,
you have not come to my place.dewdrops o n a lotus leaf 13
i sent the following two poems as my reply
by worldly affairs
bound within a certain house,
itself in the grass,
my feet and heart in discord,
i have not been free to come.
in the sky above
the moon is glittering bright
as if to guide me,
but near the hilltops beneath
gloomy clouds still linger on.
i was not at my own house
when i wrote these poems.
my master's reply
o ut of their own will
many have sacrificed themselves
to their pious cause.
what makes you persist so long
in your dark life at the house?
the glittering moon
is bright enough to shed light
upon all the world
reaching its farthest corners
and clearing the darkest minds,
shining these days as of old
alike on truth and falsehood.
yet unless you rise
clear above those misty clouds
about mountain-tops,
h ow can you, my dearest friend,
hope to see the brightest moon?14 dewdrops o n a lotus leaf
i sent my reply as soon as spring came
w ithout my plotting
winter gloom has spent itself,
and now, of itself,
sunny spring weather has come
to where i stay long confined.
myself and others,
the false as well as the true,
w ithout difference,
receive equal light, when lit
by the bright moon in the sky.
my heart awakened,
i find neither light nor dark
complete in itself,
for the soft moon lightens up
the whole of my dreamlike way.
my master wrote when i at last met him
nothing in the world,
whether gold or silver pearls,
can be more of worth
than this long-promised visit
fromyou, early in the spring.
in the divine law,
there is nothing to stop you
doing what you like
so long as you do all things,
knowing them all as they are.
my reply
warmed by sunny air,
frosly snow on mountain-tops
has started to thaw,
yet the river stays mournful
d ow n in the rock-held valley.dewdrops o n a lotus leaf 15
my masters reply
if on mountain-tops
snow has started to dissolve,
it will not be long
before the stream on its bed
begins to flow in good cheer.
my reply
flowers are silent
when asked about the wherefrom
of spring revival,
yet, when they bloom in the sun,
no songbirds will stay behind.
if untaught by you,
one hundred times one hundred
i would have counted,
not learning the simple truth
ten times ten is one hundred.
my masters reply
i would stop, alas,
bouncing.balls by the roadway,
if i knew the truth
ten times ten is one hundred.
how can you hope to learn it?
we exchanged the following poems
later at night
seated side by side
in front of our first teacher
upon m ount ryozen,
we vowed our pledge together.
let us keep it though we die.1 dewdrops o n a lotus le
seated side by side
in front of our first teacher
u pon m ount ryozen,
we vowed our pledge together.
1 will keep it though i die.
lecturing on the art of rhyming,
my master said
not for a m om ent
must you think our voices die
leaving no traces
truly more than what they are,
words are equal to our hearts.
1 bid farewell with the following poem
i must set off now,
wishing you health and quiet.
i shall come again
as soon as cuckoos come back
singing loudly from the south.
my masters reply
as a homeless man
i must drift on like seaweed.
i am at a loss
as to where i should meet you
in summer, when cuckoos come.
come and visit me
in autumn, when on the moors
bush-clovers flower.
if you find me still healthy,
lf us deck ourselves bravely.dewdrops o n a lotus leaf 1
i visited him, however,
earlier than he told me to come
ever on the watch
for bush-clovers on the moor,
getting impatient,
stamping on the summer grass,
i sought you at your cottage.
my masters reply
it was kind of you
to visit me through the grass,
wet with summer dew,
fretting far too much to wait
for the bush-clovers to bloom.
one summer, i visited my masters house
in his absence to find a fragrant
lotus flow er in his vase
i missed you today,
coming to your vacant house,
yet in your absence,
i found the whole house alive
with the sweet smell of lotus.
my masters reply
a white lotus spray
fragrant still in a small vase
is all i can spare.
think of me, each time you see
the sweet flower so arranged.18 dewdrops o n a lotus leaf
one day, a friend of mine informed me
of my masters unexpected visit to yoita.
1 went there at once to meet him,
but he was ready to depart the next day.
during our conversation, it was suggested
that we should all call him croiv, 
for he was black not only in his robes
but also in the colour of his skin.
my master welcomed the suggestion
and, laughing, he wrote
as free as a bird,
i will roam across the hills
during my journey,
now that you all have agreed
 c row  is to be my nickname.
i replied at once
when a father crow
sets out from his forest home,
aiming for a town,
will he eer leave behind him
.his soft-feathered baby crow?
my masters reply
im not unprepared
to carry out your sweet wish,
but what can you do,
if someone, watching us both,
should surmise we are sinners?
my own reply
afkite is a kite.
sparrows are indeed sparrows.
herons are herons.
should a crow walk with a crow,
who will take them for sinners?dewdrops o n a lotus leaf 19
a t the sunset, however, i retired to my inn
my sacred master,
good night, till i come again
seeking after you.
resting here at this cottage,
may you enjoy sleep and peace,
oti the following morning,
however, my master came to my inn
at break of day i welcomed him
in writing poems,
in beating our bouncy balls,
in picking flowers,
i will at once yield myself
wholeheartedly to your wish.
my master's reply
in writing poems,
in beating our bouncy balls.
in picking flowers,
i shall use my hours and days,
doubts still lingering in me.
my master promised to visit me
at my house in autumn, but his sickness
confined him to his cottage
every bush-clover
has already passed its prime
upon autumn moors.
yet prevented by ill-health,
i can not keep my promise.180 dewdrops o n a lotus leaf
instead of recovering, my masters health
deteriorated, and in winter, he was
so ill that, according to my friend,
he barred his door against any visitor
i tried to console him with a letter
in your lonely bed,
ease yourself a while longer.
at your time of life,
what means it to you, master,
this brief dream of an illness.
in reply, my master sent me the following poem,
unaccompanied by any other words
come at once to me,
as soon as spring is with us.
here at my cottage,
i long to meet you once more,
though for a twinkle of time.
a t the end of the year, my friend wrote to me
that my master had suddenly fallen
into a critical condition. shocked, i went
to him in haste, but i found him seated
on his bed in a state of relative ease.
h e welcomed me
every day and hour
i have been waiting for you.
now that i see you
seated at peace near my side,
i have nothing else to crave.
not unlike the dews
fading fast behind the grass
q f musashino,
we all can stay in the world
n o more than a passing dream.dewdrops o n a lotus leaf 181
i decided to stay with him, and nurse him
in his sickness, hut he grew weaker and weaker,
and it was obvious even to me that
he had only a few more days to live
to life or to death
i should cast a cloudless eye,
faithful to our vow.
yet at this last leave-taking,
how can i restrain my tears?
b y way of reply, my master recited to me
the following lines in a low voice
maple leaves scatter
at one m om ent gleaming bright,
darkened at the next.
these lines were not of his own making,
but he liked them well enough to repeat them
from time to time. my master died on
the sixth of january in the second year
oft enpd at the age of seventy-four.
"