In the south of the desert, sitting at the side of a small spring surrounded by willow trees, I mixed my roasted barley with water, and began to eat my lunch. Soon an old pilgrim arrived. In silence we bowed to one another. On my travels I had not met a single soul all morning, and was reluctant to get up and leave the spring and the pilgrim once I had finished my meal.
For a while I could not take my eyes off the old man's prominent Adam's apple as it jerked up and down while he ate. I wanted so very much to strike up a conversation with him, but he sat there so quietly that I felt reluctant to disturb him.
Then I suddenly discovered that behind the spring there was a small shrine. It was so small a geographer or an explorer could easily have carried it away with him as a relic. It was still quite new, painted yellow and red, and seemed rather strange. Before it stood a simple banner.
I noticed that the old man seemed to have finished his meal, so I asked him, "Excuse me, you wouldn't happen to know to whom this place is dedicated, would you?"
I realized that the old man too had been anxious to start a conversation. After nodding to me two or three times in silence as he swallowed down the last of his food, he spoke to me in a quiet voice.
"It is dedicated to the child of the . . ."
"What kind of child?"
"They say he was The Child of The Wild Geese."
The old man put his plate to one side and bending down, scooped up some spring water to wash out his mouth.
"They say he was The Child of The Wild Geese, and his story has been handed down to us as if it were a fairy-tale. They say he was a child from heaven who appeared in this region not so long ago. Such shrines as this one are to be found everywhere today, even on the other side of the desert."
"A child came down from heaven? Was it banished from the skies for some crime it had committed?"
"That I do not know for sure, but it is often rumoured to be so by the people hereabouts. Perhaps that was indeed the reason."
"Please would you tell me his story? Or are you in a hurry to be on your way?"
"No, I'm in no hurry at all. I will tell you everything I know. In Sasha there lived a man by the name of Kei Suriya. People said he was from a famous family. But now he had fallen on hard times and was living a simple life with his wife. He spent his time copying old Buddhist sutras while his wife weaved away at her loom.
One morning Suriya went out for a walk into the fields with his cousin who was carrying a gun. On the ground lay beautiful blue and green stones, the sky looked hazily white and the smell of snow was in the air.
Suriya asked his cousin if it wasn't about time he put a stop to his habit of killing animals for his own amusement. His cousin replied in a curt voice that he had no intention of changing his ways.
'What a cruel, heartless fellow you are! Have you any idea at all what kind of creatures they are that you spend your time wounding and killing?
Whatever they may be, their lives are poor and wretched,'Suriya reminded him once again.
'You may be right, but then again you may be wrong. If things are as you say, that makes it all the more fun for me. Why don't you stop going on and on about all this? I have heard it all before, in those sermons the priests used to give us. Look over there! There go some wild geese! Just you watch me shoot them down!' Suriya's cousin grabbed his rifle and ran off in hot pursuit. Suriya stood there, staring at the large black geese as they flew by in formation.
Suddenly a shot rang out. The lead goose was hit in the chest and reeled from side to side before bursting into flames and careering to the ground, screaming pitifully. Bang! Up flew another bullet, piercing the chest of the next goose. Yet none of the other birds made the least attempt to scatter and flee. On the contrary, they flew after their two wounded brothers, crying and screaming all the while.
A third bullet flew up into the air, and then a fourth. Soon six bullets had been fired and six geese hit; only the very last bird, a small one, was still left. The six burning geese were doubled up in pain as they fell out of the sky screaming in agony. The small goose in the rear followed them, weeping. Even in the throes of death, the geese maintained formation as they plunged to earth.
Suddenly, to Suriya's horror, all the geese turned into humans; now there were six people engulfed in flames screaming and writhing in pain. Behind them came a beautiful heavenly child, the only one to have escaped injury. Suriya recognized the child --- there was no doubt about it. The first of the six figures crashed to the ground. It was an old man with a white beard. Collapsing in flames onto the ground, he put his bony hands together as if to beg a favour of Suriya. He screamed in agony.
'Please, Mr Suriya, I beg of you. Please take care of my grandson for me!'
Suriya ran to him and said, 'Yes, of course I will look after him. But what has happened to you?'
One after another the wild geese fell to earth, burning in flames. They were all adults and one of them was a woman with a beautiful necklace. According to later reports, the woman was supposed to have stretched out her hands towards the child as it ran round and round her in a circle crying. The old man spoke once more.
'We belong to a heavenly race. For our sins we were turned into wild geese, but now at last our sins have been atoned and we can go back to heaven. Only my grandson cannot yet go back. His fate is linked with yours. I beg of you, please bring up this child as if he were your own.'
'Please do not worry. I give you my word that I'll look after him as if he were my own,' Suriya reassured him.
Whereupon the old man rubbed his hands together in prayer. As his head sank down and touched the earth, suddenly flames leaped up into the sky, and the figures and their shadows were no more.
Suriya and his cousin, with his rifle slung over his shoulder, stood there stunned and amazed, as if they had experienced the same dream together. Later however, the cousin told of how his rifle was still hot and that he had six bullets less than when he had set out earlier that morning. The grass where the six figures had fallen on their knees was still pressed flat.
And then there was the boy himself.
'From today onwards you are my son, so you need cry no more. Your mother and brothers have ascended into a beautiful country. Please come with me,' Suriya said to the boy.
Suriya led the child back to his home. The wilderness through which they passed was covered with blue-green stones, and all about was silent, but for the sound of the child's sobbing as he followed Suriya home.
Suriya discussed with his wife what name they should give the child. As they pondered the matter for a few days, the child's story spread throughout the whole of Sasha, and as everyone had taken to calling him The Goose Child, Suriya had no option but to do the same."
The old man was short of breath for a moment. As I gazed down at the moss by my feet, I could see before me in my mind's eye the terrible scene as the wild geese fell from the skies, engulfed in flames, burning pitifully. The old man looked at me for a while before resuming his story.
"At the end of spring the wheat blossoms fly twinkling over the fields. The harsh white light from the distant icebergs stings the naked eye with its fierce intensity. The fruit trees sway in the breeze and the lark sends out crystal clear waves of sound with its bright voice in the sky. The child was now six years old. One spring evening Suriya went for a walk with the child through the town. A bat flew by, like a shadow in the night, underneath the heavy, wine-red clouds.
The town's children had fastened string to their sticks and were running after them. Calling out, 'Goose child! Goose child!', they threw their sticks down, joined hands and formed a large circle around Suriya and the child.
Suriya laughed. The children were teasing the boy, as children do, singing all together, 'Goose child, goose child! You have come down from heaven to Suriya.' One of them called out, 'Goose child, you foundling, will you still be here when the spring comes?'
They all burst out laughing at this and suddenly a small stone came flying towards the goose child, hitting him on the cheek. Suriya covered the child with his body to protect him from the other children and shouted at them angrily, 'What do you think you're playing at? Has this child done anything to hurt you? Stones should never be thrown, not even as a joke!'
One by one the children came to apologize to the boy and to comfort him. One of them even wanted to give him some dried figs that he had in his pocket.
During the whole time a smile had played upon the lips of the goose child. Suriya's face broke into a smile too as he forgave the children before continuing on with their walk through the town. In the stillness of the bright yellow, agate evening mist Suriya spoke to the child.
'You were brave not to cry.'
According to what people say, the child was then supposed to have clung tightly to his father and asked,'But grandfather had seven bullets in him, didn't he?'"
The old pilgrim looked me in the face. I returned his gaze, looking into his mournful eyes. He continued with his story.
"There was another time when one evening the child could not get off to sleep. He tossed and turned restlessly on his bed.
'Mother, I just can't get to sleep,'the child said. Suriya's wife got up and went to him, gently caressing his head. The child's head was burning hot and he was trembling like a leaf. It felt as if a large three-day-old moon was floating about inside his head; it seemed to be full of fern buds. Slowly it felt as if something square was spreading out within him, something marvelously soft and white. Then the square turned into a large box. His mother was worried how hot his forehead had become.
Suriya put his hands together in prayer, sitting at his desk before the sutra he had just been copying. He then rose from his chair and made the child stand. He tied a red leather belt around the boy's waist and together they walked outside into the open air.
All the houses roundabout stood with their doors shut, and their roofs all stood in a row silhouetted under the starry sky. Suddenly the child could hear the sound of flowing water. After he had thought for a while, the child asked,'Father, does water flow at night too?'
Suriya looked at the large blue star that was rising up on the far side of the desert and answered,'Yes, water flows at night too. It doesn't matter whether it's day or night, water will always flow, except in places where the land is quite flat.'
All at once the child's fever died away and now all he wanted was to rush back to his mother.
'Father, let's go back home now,' he said pulling Suriya by the sleeve of his coat. They walked home where his mother was waiting for them, and as she closed the door behind them, the child was already back in bed, fast asleep.
I have also heard the following story about the child.
One day Suriya and the child were sitting down to eat at the dining table. Before them many kinds of food were laid out, including two carp cooked in honey. Suriya's wife gave one to her husband and the other to the child. 'I don't want any,' said the child.
'But they taste wonderful! Here, pass me your chopsticks.'
Suriya's wife took the child's chopsticks and deftly lifted the meat off the bone.
'Why don't you try some at least? It tastes so nice!'
The child watched intently as his mother divided the fish up. Suddenly he felt overwhelmed by a strange sensation in his chest. He felt unbearably miserable and sad. Jumping up from his chair, he rushed outside like an arrow flying through the air. Looking up into the sky blanketed in white cloud, the child burst out crying.
'What on earth is up with him?' Suriya's wife asked her husband in amazement. 'Go and find out what's the matter,' Suriya told his wife, a worried look on his face. But by the time she had reached the door --- so the story goes - --the child had already stopped crying. A smile was on his lips.
There was another time when Suriya and the child were walking by the horse market. A foal was sucking milk from its mother. A horse dealer dressed in coarse black clothes came and took the foal away from its mother, tied it to another foal and was about to lead them away. The foal's mother neighed loudly in despair, but the man ignored her and began to lead the young horses away. As they were about to disappear around a corner, the foal kicked out its hind legs, trying to get rid of the flies that were sitting on its belly.
The child looked again into the brown eyes of the mother horse. Suddenly he grabbed hold of Suriya and burst into tears. But Suriya did not scold him. Instead he sought to cover the child's face with his sleeve, as if to protect him. After they had left the horse market, Suriya had the child sit down on the green grass of the river bank. He took an apricot from his pocket, gave it to the child and asked in a gentle voice, 'What was it that made you cry back there?'
'But father, they took the foal away from its mother against its will!' 'That often happens to horses, you know. It has already grown quite big, so from now on it must work by itself.'
'But it is still young enough to be sucking milk from its mother. It's only a baby!'
'As long as it stays with its mother, it will always rely on her. There was nothing else to be done.'
'But father, soon they'll be making them carry heavy packs up into those ter rible mountains! And then when they run out of things to eat, they'll kill the horses for food!'
Suriya calmly told the boy not to talk like an adult and act so precociously. In fact the child's words had greatly surprised him. When the child turned twelve, Suriya sent him to a private school in the capital which was some distance way.
The child's mother sat weaving tirelessly at her spinning wheel to earn money to pay for the child's school fees and his pocket money. Winter came, covering the mountains of Tienshan with snow. The mulberry leaves, now all yellow and withered, fell rustling from the trees. One day the child returned home. Standing at the window his mother saw him approach, and went out to meet him.
Suriya continued copying his sutras as if he had not noticed a thing. 'What are you doing here, then? You should be at school.'
'But I want to work with you, mother. I have no time for studying.' Not wishing to bother her husband, Suriya's wife told the boy, 'Don't you start all that grown-up talk of yours again! Now, you get yourself straight back to school and get on with your studying otherwise you'll never amount to anything in life!'
'But mother, your hands are all rough and cracked. Yet look at mine and how soft they are!'
'You shouldn't say such things! Everyone's hands get rough as they get older. Get back to school sharpish and study, you hear! I'm counting on you to go out into the world and do something with your life. Father will give you a right telling-off when he hears what you've been up to! Be off with you now!'
The child trudged dejectedly out the garden gate and then stopped. His mother went out and walked with him for a while as far as the marsh, as he headed back towards the school.
As she turned to go, his mother told him once more, 'Be on your way now!'
But the child stood there gazing back towards the house. His mother turned round to face him again; her heart went out to him. She pulled a reed from the bushes and made it into a little flute which she gave him. Finally the child set off on his way. Soon his silhouette grew smaller and smaller as it receded into the distance whilst the cold clouds stretched out up above and the reeds bent in the breeze. All of a sudden the sound of flapping wings could be heard in the sky as a skein of wild geese flew by. Suriya looked up from his desk by the window and shuddered.
It was now the coldest time of the year. And then when the sharp winter was finally over, the wheat buds appeared, as veils of mist hovered over the desert floor like sugar water. Then came the time for the white blossoms of the apricot and the pear trees to burst forth. The trees and themeadows turned a deep green, as the clouds circled in the sky, their summits the colour of chalcedony.
It was at about this time that work began on excavating the remains of the old temple of Sasha that lay buried in sand on the outskirts of the town. A whole wall had been discovered still fully intact, on which there was a picture of three heavenly children. Everyone who saw it remarked how one of the figures was so vivid it almost seemed to be alive.
One beautiful fine day Suriya went to the capital to visit his son's teacher. Suriya thanked him for looking after his son and gave him three bundles of cloth as a present. He told the teacher that he wanted to take the child for a walk and that he would bring him back later that day.
Suriya and the child were walking through the crowded streets when without thinking Suriya said, 'Oh, what a lovely blue sky there is today. You are just at the age when you get to think how nice it'd be to have wings and to fly off up into the sky!'
The child replied despondently,'But father, I want to stay with you! I don't want to fly away!'
Suriya laughed. 'Don't worry. Nobody can simply fly off. Life just isn't like that.'
'But father, I don't want to go away! Nobody really needs to leave home, do they?' The child asked.
His father was slightly taken aback. 'What do you mean 'nobody really needs to leave home.'
'Nobody has to, do they? Nobody has to be left stranded far away from home, do they?'
'Of course not. No one has to leave home,' Suriya replied simply, lost in thought.
The two of them walked over the market square and headed for the edge of town. There was sand everywhere. Many people were standing in a big hole that had been freshly dug. Suriya and the child climbed down to join them. Facing them was an old wall on which the picture of three heavenly children could be seen, its colours worn and faded. Suriya shuddered. He felt as if he had suddenly been overwhelmed by something large and heavy that had fallen down from the distant heavens. But when he spoke, there was no trace of worry in his voice.
'This is truly remarkable. The picture is so well painted, it's uncanny. I cannot put my finger on it but somehow this heavenly child reminds me of you.'
Suriya turned to face the child. Then with a smile on his face, the child slumped to the ground. In surprise Suriya quickly grabbed hold of him with both his hands and held him tight. In his father's arms, the child murmured as if in a dream, 'Grandfather has sent me a message.'
'What's wrong with you?' Suriya called out in panic. 'You can't simply leave me like this!'
'Father, forgive me,' the child said in a weak voice. 'I am your child. It was you, in an earlier life, who painted this picture on the wall.' People were running in all directions, calling out to one another, 'It's the Goose Child! It's the Goose Child!'
The child moved his lips slightly and seemed to murmur something, but Suriya could not make out what he was saying. Or so the story goes. That is all that I know."
The old man got up to leave. I was sad to bid him farewell. I stood up and placed the palms of my hands together in greeting. "I thank you for this wonderful story you have told me. We are but strangers who have met at a spring on the edge of a desert. But I believe our meeting was not simply coincidence. We are no more than travellers whose paths have happened to cross. But be that as it may, we will walk forward together on the path to enlightenment revealed to us by the Holy Buddha. I bid you farewell and wish you a happy life."
Silently the old man returned my bow. He seemed about to say something, then suddenly he turned and without a word walked slowly into the wilderness from which I had come. I set off on my way with my palms pressed together as I walked into the lonely, stony desert, in the exact opposite direction to the path taken by the old man.
Chanata the dragon lifted himself up out of the water that poured into his cave as high tide approached. The morning sun shone in through the entrance to the cave, lighting up the uneven surface of the rocks on the sea bottom. Many red and white creatures could be seen, clinging to the rocks.
Chanata gazed sleepily into the blue, slightly murky water. Then he looked out through the cave entrance at the glistening sea, and at the bright yellow ball of fire on the horizon, the seat of the sun god.

"If I were free, I could row far out over the sea. I could fly up into the blue sky and set the black clouds into motion with my torch-like breath.
But I am trapped here. The crack leading from this cave to the sea is just wide enough for me to glimpse what lies beyond. Oh, Holy King of the Dragons, forgive me for my crimes! Free me from your curse!"

With a sad look on his face, Chanata turned his gaze once more to the cave's interior. The sun's rays now fell upon his tail in the water, as it lay there reflecting the light, twinkling blue and white. Suddenly the dragon heard the sound of a young man's voice coming from outside the cave.
He looked to see who it was.

"Most honorable and esteemed Chanata, I have come here today bidden by the morning sun to ask you for your forgiveness."

A well-dressed young man, wearing a necklace and with a long sword at his side, was sitting on some moss-covered stones outside the cave.

"Why are you asking me for forgiveness?"

"Dear dragon, yesterday I took part in a poetry recital competition and everyone overwhelmed me with their praise. Alta, the most famous of all the poets, stepped down from his chair, bowed before me and offered me his seat of honour. He crowned me with awards, singing my praises in a four-verse hymn before retiring into solitude far in the East at the foot of the snowy mountains. I was intoxicated by the beauty of the song I had sung as if I were drunk on wine. I felt numbed by the speeches of praise and the bouquets of flowers that rained down upon me from all sides, engulfing me.
But far into the night, after I had left the house of my rich host and was walking over the glistening dew on the grass on my way home to my poor mother's house, the seat of the moon god was suddenly hidden behind clouds and everything became dark. As I looked up, I could hear a gentle voice coming from the Miruda Wood.

'Young Surdatta stole his song from the old dragon Chanata who is trapped in his cave. Today in the poetry contest Surdatta used this song for his own ends, driving the old poet Alta off into a life of solitude in the East.'

Suddenly my legs began to shake. I couldn't go on any further, even though I wanted to. So I sat there on the grass the whole of last night, my head pounding with confusion. As I sat there thinking things over, I remembered that for days I had been coming to sit on the cliff that overhangs this cave, never realizing that you were here. I have often fallen asleep here, weary from my studies and my singing. I must have heard this song on a windy, overcast day whilst I was taking an afternoon nap. Most honorable Chanata, I will tomorrow scatter ashes upon my head, I will sit down in the great square in the town and beg you and all the people for forgiveness.
Will you, my esteemed teacher, the one who composed this wonderful song, will you be kind enough to forgive me?"

"What kind of hymn was it that the poet Alta sang to praise you, before retiring into solitude in the East?"

"I am so confused by everything that has happened to me that I can no longer remember the wonderful verses, but I think they went something like this :

"No sooner has the wind sung, the clouds echoed and the waves resounded than you sing their song, Surdatta. You are a prophet who envisions a model of truth and beauty for tomorrow's world after which the stars yearn and the land shapes itself and who eventually makes the world become so. You are an architect, Surdatta."

"May the worthy and noble poet Alta find happiness wherever he maybe. Surdatta, that song is yours as well as mine. Did you really believe that you heard that song while you were sitting up there above my cave? Oh, Surdatta!

At that time I was the wind and the clouds. And you were the wind and the clouds, too. The poet Alta would probably have sung the same song if he had meditated then. But, Surdatta, Alta's language would have been different from yours, and yours from mine. And the rhythm would have been different, too. So, that song is yours."

"Oh, Mr Dragon! Does that mean you've forgiven me?"

"Who is supposed to be forgiving whom? We are all, each and every one of us, the wind, the clouds and the water. Surdatta, if I were only able to leave this cave, and if you were not afraid of me, I would so much like to hold you in my arms and comfort you. Here, let me at least give you a little present. Stretch out your hand to me."

The dragon held out a small red pearl which glowed with an inner fire of immense power.

"You must take this pearl with you when you go to the sea to look for the sunken Holy Sutras."

Surdatta kneeled down low to receive the pearl and said to the dragon, "Oh, Mr Dragon, I have wanted this for such a long time! I don't know how to begin to thank you. But why can't such a mighty dragon as yourself leave this rocky cave?"

"Surdatta, a long time ago, many thousands of years ago when I was the ruler of the wind and the clouds, I once wanted to test out my strength and in doing so, I brought great misfortune upon mankind. So the Dragon King banished me to this cave for a hundred thousand years, to guard over the border between the land and the sea. Every day that I spend here, I regret my misdeed and beg the King for forgiveness."

"Mr Dragon, I still have my mother to look after, but once she is reborn and happy in Heaven, I will then go into the sea and search for the Great Sutras. Will you wait here in the cave until that day comes?"

"To a dragon, a thousand human years are no more than ten days."

"Please look after this pearl for me until that day comes. I want to come here every day that I can, to look up at the sky, to gaze into the water and to observe the clouds. And as I do so, I want to talk with you about the creation of a new world."

"And if you do, you will make this old dragon very happy indeed."

"Farewell!"

"Farewell to you!"

Surdatta walked off over the rocks with a happy heart. Chanata the dragon hid himself deep in the water in the furthest corner of his cave and softly began to recite his prayers of repentance.
Cold, mean-looking, low-lying clouds dripped, dripped, dripped so close to the ground it was impossible to tell whether the fields were lit up by the white light of the snow or that of the sun.
Buffeted by the low-lying cloud, the volunteer division of the crow fleet could do nothing but take up emergency anchoring and wait for the cloud to clear. They lined up in rows in the snow-covered rice field whose surface shined as if covered with sheets of galvanized steel. Sitting at anchor, none of their ships moved in the slightest.
Even the pitch-black, smooth-plumed crow captain stood stiffly to attention, not moving a muscle.
The crow admiral himself remained motionless the whole while, not even batting an eyelid in spite of his advanced age. His eyes were now ash-grey and whenever he cawed, his voice would grate and squeak like a battered old doll.
There had once been a child who, unable to tell the age of a crow by looking at it, had said,
"Hey, you know something? We've got two crows in this town with sore throats!"
The child was no doubt mistaken. There was in fact only one crow and that was the admiral. He didn't even have a sore throat. It was just that his voice had grown weary from too many long years spent shouting out orders up in the sky. And this was precisely why all the crows in the volunteer fleet considered the admiral's voice the sweetest sound hey knew.
Sitting at emergency anchorage in the snow, the crow fleet looked like pebbles or perhaps even sesame seeds dotted on the landscape. Through a telescope they looked like potatoes, some big, some small. Nightfall approached.
At last the clouds began to clear, rising just enough to allow the crows to take to the wing. 
The admiral cleared his throat and bellowed an order.
"Commence manoeuvres! Move forward!"
The fleet commander took the lead, beating his wings against the snow as he flew up into the sky. The eighteen ships in the captain's division ollowed one by one, shooting up into the sky whilst maintaining a suitable distance between them.
Next up, the thirty-two strong battle fleet set off, shortly to be followed by the dignified shape of the admiral. Circling above them the captain had already completed four wide sweeps of the sky, going as far as to touch the tip of the cloud base, and now he set the course, heading straight ahead towards the yonder woods.
Twenty-nine cruisers followed by twenty-five gunboats, all set off one by one, up into the sky. The last two ships to leave the field finally set off together rising up into the sky, the only blemish in an otherwise perfect copybook operation.
The captain flew up as far as the wood and then veered off to the left. As he did so, the admiral gave the order, "Cannons, fire!" The massed ranks of the fleet all fired at once.
"Craw! Craw! Craw! Craw!"
One of the ships that had gone wounded at the recent battle at Nidanatora jerked its leg back in pain as it fired its cannon, the almighty sound reverberating throughout its body.
The admiral made four wide sweeps of the sky and then thundered out the order to withdraw.
"Ranks, retire!" With that he left his unit, returning to his official residence in the cedar tree. All the crows broke formation and went back to their barracks, all that is except the crow captain who instead flew off by himself over towards the honey locust tree in the West.
The clouds were almost black and only over the western mountains could a pool of gloomy pale blue sky be seen peeking forth. From its muggy depths a silvery star shined forth, a star the crows called 'Mashirii'. 
The crow captain flew down as swift as an arrow, alighting on a branch of the honey locust tree where, for some time past now, a second crow had been quietly sitting. It was obviously worried about something. It was the captain's fiancee, the gunboat with the most beautiful voice in the fleet.
"Craw! Craw! Sorry I'm late. Oh, weren't those manoeuvres today tiring? I'm whacked."
"Craw! Sitting here waiting for you's given me a nice little rest, so I don't feel tired at all, really."
"Oh, jolly good. Look, my dear, the fact of the matter is I'll soon be going away for quite a while, leaving you on your own. No helping it, I'm afraid."
"On my goodness! This is dreadful!"
"The battle fleet commander has told me that tomorrow I'm due to set off on the trail of the mountain crow. It'll be my job to track him down."
"Oh dear God! That mountain crow has a fearsome reputation."
"That's right, I'm afraid. His eyes stick out and his beak's thin, all of which goes to make him look pretty darned daunting. But no need to worry, he won't pose much of a problem."
"Are you sure you'll be all right?"
"Of course I'm sure. But this is war after all and in battle you never know just what might happen. If the worst comes to the worst, I want you to go out and find yourself a decent husband, you hear me now?"
"Oh, it doesn't bear thinking about! This is simply too awful for words! What am I to do? Craw! Craw! Craw!"
"Stop your crying and pull yourself together, someone's coming!"
One of the captain's subordinates, the crow sergeant came rushing over and saluted, his head slightly tilted to one side.
"Craw! It's time for the roll-call, captain. Everyone's ready and waiting."
"Thank you, sergeant, I'll rejoin my unit immediately. You can fly back now."
"Right you are, captain," the sergeant said and flew off.
"Stop your crying, for heaven's sake. We'll still be able to see each other again tomorrow at roll-call. Now look after yourself. I should already be on parade so I'd better get going at once. Give me your hand."
The two birds grasped each other tightly by the hand. Then the captain pushed off from the branch and hurried back to rejoin his troops. The female crow remained there as if frozen to the branch,not moving a single muscle.
Night fell.
And then it was midnight.
The clouds had all cleared away, leaving the sky, which shone like freshly smolten steel, full of an ice-cold light. A few small stars joined together before exploding and the axle of the water wheel squeaked as it turned.
Suddenly a crack appeared in the thin steel of the sky, splitting it in two. Long threatening arms hung down through the crack and tried to catch hold of the crows and carry them off to the yonder side of the heavens. The crow volunteer fleet were now all busy with their battle preparations, hurriedly pulling on their black trousers. They took off into the air, circling the sky in a flurry of feathers and flapping wings. There was no more time left for older brothers to keep a watchful eye on their siblings. In the melee and confusion lovers even sometimes crashed into each other as they rushed about.
No, it was not like that at all.
It was totally different.
The moon appeared, rising up over the eastern mountains. It was already waning, looked pressed flat and blue and seemed to be crying. The crow fleet was quietly settled for the night.
Suddenly a silence fell over the wood. The only noise to be heard was that of a young sailor who, losing his footing, opened his eyes in surprise and with a voice still full of sleep let fly a burst with his cannon, "Craw!"
The crow captain meanwhile was still wide awake, unable to sleep. 
"Tomorrow I'll die in battle," he murmured to himself, turning his gaze towards the wood where his fiancee waited.
In the treetops, as soft and black as seaweed, slept the young gunboat with the beautiful voice. Her sleep was light, troubled by dreams. In one, she and the crow captain were flying all by themselves, on and on, up into the blue-black sky, swapping the occasional glance as they flapped their wings for all they were worth. The Great Bear of the crows, the Majieru star, loomed large as it drew ever closer. Soon even the pale green apple trees could be seen that grew on its surface.
Suddenly finding their wings as stiff as stone, the two crows fell tumbling out of the sky, careering downwards, head over heels. Calling out Majieru's name, she awoke with a start to find herself falling off her branch. Quickly extending her wings, she righted herself, regaining her balance. Looking over towards the captain's quarters, it was not long before she was asleep again.
This time she dreamed she saw a mountain crow wearing a pince-nez appear before them. He made as if to shake the captain's hand.When the latter refused, the mountain crow suddenly pulled out a glistening pistol and bam! bam! bam! shot the captain dead. He fell to the ground, clutching his soft black chest.
She called out Majieru's name once more in surprise and woke up.
The crow captain had clearly heard everything, from the beating of her wings as she sought to right herself on the branch to the sound of her voice as she prayed, calling out Majieru's name. The captain sighed and looking up at the seven beautiful stars of the Great Bear quietly said a prayer of his own.
"I don't know if it'll be me who wins tomorrow or the mountain crow. That is for you to decide. All that I do know is that I will fight with all my strength, as is only right for me to do. What-ever happens tomorrow, it will be according to your will." Over in the eastern sky there was already some silvery light to be seen.
Suddenly from the far distant cold of the North came a faint sound as if something had touched against a key. The crow captain quickly grabbed his night glasses and looked to see what it was. There in the snowy white mountain pass a sole chestnut tree could be seen bathed in starlight. Sitting in the treetop gazing up at the sky was something that could only be the enemy. It was a mountain crow. The captain felt his heart race as he sensed the proximity of battle .
"Craw! Emergency stations! Craw! Emergency stations!"
The captain's men promptly pushed off from their branches, flying up into the air, circling around their leader.
"Charge!"
Taking the front, the captain headed northwards full of impetuosity. The eastern sky shone white like freshly polished steel.
The mountain crow leapt off its branch as quickly as it could, and spreading its wings wide, sought to escape to the North. But its way was already cut off by the torpedo destroyers who had him surrounded.
"Craw! Craw! Craw! Craw! Craw!" The noise of their cannon fire was deafening. In desperation the mountain crow flew up into the sky scrambling with its legs in a vain effort to gain extra speed.The captain was already on him, dealing a fearsome blow to his pitch-black head. The mountain crow staggered and as he began to fall, the sergeant added a stinging blow into his side. Closing its ash-grey eyes, the mountain crow fell to the ground where it lay stretched out in the cold snow in the early morning light.
"Craw! Sergeant, I want you to make sure the corpse is brought back to barracks. Craw! All right, everyone, return to base!"
"Yes sir!" As the strong sergeant lifted up the corpse, the captain began to fly back to the wood, followed by his eighteen ships. Once back in their barracks, the torpedo destroyers regrouped, panting heavily, their breath white in the cold morning air.
"Any injuries? Anyone been wounded?" The crow captain asked as he did the rounds, checking to see everyone was all right.
It was by now quite light.
The sun's rays poured down onto the mountain snow like peach juice, gradually flowing down into the valley below. White lily flowers seemed to burst into bloom in the midst of the snow, drenched in the sunlight.
The dazzling sun stood sadly twinkling in the sky above the snowy mountains to the East.
"Line up! Everyone on parade!" The admiral yelled.
"Line up! Everyone on parade!" The captain yelled.
The crows all stood in neat rows in the snow-covered rice field.
The crow captain broke ranks, walking straight ahead with his long strides over the glistening snow. He stopped in front of the admiral.
"Report to the admiral! Today, at dawn, having ascertained the mooring of the enemy ship in the mountain pass at Sepira, our fleet launched an immediate attack, sinking the enemy. No casualties were suffered on our side. End of report, sir!"
The members of the destroyer fleet were so overwhelmed with joy, they wept hot tears that poured down onto the snow.
With tears welling up in his ash-grey eyes, the crow admiral turned to address the crow captain.
"Craw! Craw! You have done an excellent job! Congratulations! Well done, indeed! Today you have earned yourself promotion to the rank of major. I'll leave it to you to decide which of your men deserve decoration."
The newly-promoted crow major's thoughts turned to the mountain crow who had been driven down the mountain by hunger only to find himself surrounded by nineteen hostile ships. He remembered how he had perished in battle, and once more he wept.
"Thank you very much, sir. With your permission, admiral, I would like to bury the enemy's dead."
"Permission granted. Bury him with full honours."
Saluting the admiral, the major stepped back and rejoining his troops he looked up into the blue sky over towards the Majieru star.
"Blessed Majieru, please make the world such that we never again find ourselves forced to kill an enemy we cannot bring ourselves to hate. To that end I would gladly lay down my own life and have my body torn apart again and again."
In the clear blue sky from whence the Majieru star was approaching a blue light welled up and shined forth.
All this while the beautiful pitch-black crow gunboat stood there motionless, shoulder to shoulder with all the others, tears rolling down her cheeks. The gunboat leader pretended not to notice. From tomorrow she would again be able to rejoin her fiancee out on manoeuvres. The thought of this made her so happy,she opened her beak wide, again and again, as if to shout for joy. The sun's rays passed through her beak, lighting it up bright red.
This too the gunboat leader turned a blind eye to, as he pretended to look away.
Be not defeated by the rain, Nor let the wind prove your better.
Succumb not to the snows of winter. Nor be bested by the heat of summer.

Be strong in body. Unfettered by desire. Not enticed to anger. Cultivate a quiet joy.
Count yourself last in everything. Put others before you.
Watch well and listen closely. Hold the learned lessons dear.

A thatch-roof house, in a meadow, nestled in a pine grove's shade.

A handful of rice, some miso, and a few vegetables to suffice for the day.

If, to the East, a child lies sick: Go forth and nurse him to health.
If, to the West, an old lady stands exhausted: Go forth, and relieve her of burden.
If, to the South, a man lies dying: Go forth with words of courage to dispel his fear.
If, to the North, an argument or fight ensues: 
Go forth and beg them stop such a waste of effort and of spirit.

In times of drought, shed tears of sympathy. 
In summers cold, walk in concern and empathy.

Stand aloof of the unknowing masses:
Better dismissed as useless than flattered as a "Great Man".

This is my goal, the person I strive to become.

Four ice-cold rivers cut deep crevices in the glacier as they boiled and foamed from the Mount Carakon highlands to the country of Prauha below. The main town of the country of Prauha was also called Prauha and the four mountain torrents joined to form a great, peaceful river in the centre of the town. The great, peaceful river was, for the most part, just that: peaceful. It was so peaceful, in fact, that the clouds in the sky and the trees along the bank reflected in the deep pools as clearly as in a great, perfect mirror.
You probably noticed that the river was peaceful "for the most part", that is because the river occasionally flooded and overflowed its banks a hundred metres on either side, reaching far up into the willows that grew along the banks. During these floods the river was fearsome , roaring and pounding past the town. Fortunately, the waters always receded as quickly as they came, leaving the wide, white banks exposed. 
The flat banks were dotted with long, narrow ponds left from the receding water. The position of the ponds changed with every flood as the old ones were filled in and new ones formed but there had always been and would always be ponds along the river bank.
The ponds were full of life. The reeds and bull-rushes gave cover to the many fish who made their homes there. Of these fish, the loaches and the catfish were the most numerous but only because the townspeople of Prauha refused to eat them unless absolutely necessary. Also numerous, of course, were the carps and Crucian carps. There were haya to be found, too.
One year, there was a rumour that a massive sturgeon had escaped from the ocean, swum upstream, and got trapped in one of the bigger pools. It goes without saying that the adults and the older children knew such a thing to impossible and laughed at Richiki, the poor barber with only two pairs of scissors, who had started the rumour in the first place. He was widely regarded as the town fool, anyway. 
The younger children, however, spent whole days staring into the ponds looking for the giant fish. As you might have guessed, they never found a giant sturgeon swimming (or floating) in any of the pools no matter how hard and how long they looked. At last, even the smallest of the children gave up and looked on Richiki with scorn and contempt. 

As does any country, Prauha had laws. The first (and therefore most important) Law of Prauha was as follows:

Law # 1 - "No person shall ever use gunpowder to kill birds nor shall anyone use poison powder to catch fish."

If you are wondering what, exactly, poison powder is and what it has to do with fishing, here is how Richiki (the foolish barber) explained it:
"Peel the bark from a pepper tree at midnight of a springtime Day of the Horse. Dry the bark twice, but only during the 18 days before the seasons change. Grind the dried pepper bark finely in a mortar and pestle. Then, on a sunny day, take 1 kan-me (about 4 kg) of this powder and add 700 mon-me (about 280 g) of maple ash to it. Keep the mix in a cloth bag. When you go fishing, put the bag in the water and rub it between your hands so that the poison powder seeps out. When the fish drink the poison powder, they will gasp for breath for a short time before rolling over and floating to the surface dead, white underbellies to the sky."
In the Prauhanian language, this technique is known as "Eppu-kappu" (isn't that a great word?) and the most important job of the Prauha Police Force is to make sure that nobody does it and to arrest anyone who tries.

One summer, a new Police Chief came to Prauha. He was a strange-looking fellow because he looked somewhat like an otter. His teeth were all silver-plated and he had a long, red moustache which he waxed at the tips so it stuck straight out to the sides. He wore lots of splendid gold braid on his shoulders and a long red cape. Every day, he wandered about the town making certain that everything was as it should be.
"Don't you think that your donkey's load is too heavy?" he would say to the owner on seeing a heavily-laden donkey walking slowly with a drooping head.
"Now, you make sure you say all the right charms so that your baby gets well quickly," he would say if he walked by a house where a sick baby was crying.
All in all, he was a kindly, considerate Police Chief.

Some time after the arrival of the new Police Chief, it became obvious that someone was breaking that very important First Law of Prauha. No one was catching any fish in the big ponds along the river bank and, on top of that, rotting fish were found floating amongst the reeds. Then, one spring morning, all of the pepper trees in the village were found stripped clean of bark. To be precise, the stripped trees were noticed on the day after the Day of the Horse. Strangely, however, the new Police Chief paid no attention to these happenings. 
"You don't say? Really?" was the most he would say when someone informed him of the matter.

One morning, a group of children were gathered in front of the calligraphy teacher's house. Everyone was circled around two children who were talking excitedly.
"We got in trouble with the Police Chief," one of them said.
"What kind of trouble?" a bigger kid at the front of the circle asked. 
"He yelled at us," the other kid in the middle replied. "We were down at the river throwing rocks. We didn't know he was there. He was down by one of the ponds with three or four other men. I think he caught the people who were using the poison powder."
"What did he say when he yelled at you?" 
"Who's there? Yeah, you, throwing rocks. We're looking for the bad people who are breaking the very important Law #1, so we'll be here all day. You'd better go straight home and don't say anything to anyone. O.K.?'"
"It looks like they're going to catch those bad people soon," someone said.

However, a whole six months passed without the criminals being caught and once again the children gathered.
"It's true, I tell you, I can prove it," someone said. "Last night, just when the moon was coming up, I saw the Police Chief rushing through town. He was dressed all in black and he was wearing a hood. He stopped and talked to a strange man, that small guy with the rifle. Anyway, I heard the Police Chief say, 
"Next time, you make it better, grind it finer, make it more powdery." 
"Then the rifle guy said something I couldn't hear and the Police Chief got angry,
"Look here," he said. "I paid you 2 whole taels for that bag of powder and you cut it with oak bark. I know you did so don't try to deny it." 
"I'd bet anything they were talking about pepper tree bark."
At this, another child piped up,
"It's true, the police chief bought two bags of maple ash from our place; I should know because I had to deliver it myself. I'll bet he mixed it with the ground up pepper tree bark."
"That's it! That's it!" everyone yelled and clapped their hands.
As might be expected, rumours of the Police Chief's involvement in the poison powder affair spread quickly through the town.
When Richiki, the barber, heard this rumour he sat right down and made up a Balance of Accounts (he had lots of free time because, as you remember he was not a popular barber and had few customers).


Balance of Account for Poison Powder Fishing

　　EXPENDITURES:
1 - 60kg bag of dried pepper tree bark　2 taels
1 - 60kg bag of ash 　　　　　　　　　　30 maels
　　 TOTAL 　　　　　　　　　　　2 taels, 30 maels

　　INCOME:
7.5 kg of eel　　　　　　13 taels
other　　　　　　　　　　10 taels
　　TOTAL　　　　　　　　　　　　　23 taels

　　PROFIT (to Police Chief)　　　20 taels, 70 maels

It was not long before the rumour reached even the smallest children's ears. When they saw a police man on his rounds, they ran far enough away to be heard but not caught, took up a defiant and mocking pose, and called out in a loud voice,
"Hey, Mr. Poison Fishing Policeman, how about sharing some of your catfish with me?"
Children mocking policemen in the streets was the last straw. The situation was critical and could be ignored no longer so the Mayor paid a visit to the Police Chief (he took six of his underlings along, just in case).
At the Police Station, the Police Chief showed the Mayor into the reception room. They sat on chairs across a table from each other but the Police Chief did not look at the Mayor; rather his gold eyes were focused somewhere off in the distance.
"Well, Mr. Police Chief," the Mayor began, "I'm sure I don't have to tell you that someone is breaking the "Forest, Field, and River Management Law" or Law #1 as everyone knows it. What is going on?"
"Really? You don't say? I wasn't aware of it," responded the Police Chief.
"Surely you must know of it?" the Mayor continued, slightly taken aback. "As a matter of fact, my own pepper tree in my own garden has been completely stripped of bark. Furthermore, everyone has seen the dead fish floating in the ponds, white underbellies to the sky.
The Police Chief gave a curious laugh. The Mayor suspected he was hiding something.
"Hmmm, yes, I have been hearing some rumours lately, now that I think about it," the Police Chief said.
"Yes, there have been rumours, indeed," continued the Mayor. "In fact, the children have been saying that it's you. I am quite perturbed."
The Police Chief exploded out of his chair, "That's scandalous. My honour is at stake here. Hence, I will arrest the perpetrator forthwith."
"You could do that?" asked the Mayor. "You have enough evidence?"
"Yes, I can do it immediately, right now, with no further delay," said Police Chief. "I have all the evidence I need." "So, you already know who it is, then?" asked the Mayor.
"Yes, I know only too well for the guilty party is, in fact, me. I have been fishing with the forbidden poison powder," the Police Chief replied, sticking his face out so that the Mayor could get a good look at it.
The Mayor was surprised, to say the least.
"So it really was you after all?" he asked.
"Yes!"
"For sure?"
"Without a doubt."
The Police Chief sat down again and rang the bell on the table, GONNNNNNNG. Within moments, his First Detective, the one with the unkempt red beard appeared to take him away.

The Judge decided that there was only one punishment appropriate for such a serious crime: death by execution. On the appointed day, the Police Chief was brought to the public square with his hands tied securely behind his back.
As the giant, curved sword hung in the air, glinting in the sunlight, ready to separate his head and his body, the ex-Police Chief let out a wonderful, joyous laugh.
"How wonderful it was!" he exclaimed. "Fishing with the poison powder in this world was a dream come true, I shall remember it forever. Soon, however, I shall go to hell where I can fish with poison powder to my heart's content."
The blade fell. 
The townspeople stood by in amazement. 
