Thus have I heard. Once the Buddha was staying in the city of Rajag?ha, on
the mountain called G?dhraku?a, together with a great assembly of twelve
thousand monks, all of whom were arhats whose corruption was at an end,
who were free from the confusion of desire, who had achieved their own
goals, shattered the bonds of existence, and attained complete mental discipline. Their names were Ajñatakau??inya, Mahakasyapa, Uruvilvakasyapa,
Gayakasyapa, Nadikasyapa, Sariputra, Mahamaudgalyayana, Mahakatya-
yana, Aniruddha, Kapphi?a, Gava?pati, Revata, Pilindavatsa, Bakkula,
Mahakau??hila, Nanda, Sundarananda, Pur?amaitraya?iputra, Subhuti,
Ananda, and Rahula. All of them were great arhats, known to the assembly.
There were in addition two thousand others, both those who had more to
learn and those who did not. The nun Mahaprajapati was there, together with
her six thousand attendants; and also the nun Yasodhara, Rahula’s mother,
together with her attendants.
There were also eighty thousand bodhisattva mahasattvas, all of whom
were irreversible from highest, complete enlightenment (anuttara samyaksa?bodhi). They had obtained the dhara?is, were established in eloquence,
and had turned the irreversible wheel of the Dharma. Each had paid homage
to countless hundreds of thousands of buddhas, planted roots of merit in their
presence, and had always been praised by those buddhas. They had also cultivated compassion within themselves, skillfully caused others to enter the
wisdom of a buddha, obtained great wisdom, and reached the other shore. All
of them were famous throughout countless worlds and had saved innumerable hundreds of thousands of sentient beings. They were Mañjusri, Avalokitesvara, Mahasthamaprapta, Nityodyukta, Anik?iptadhura, Ratnapani,
Bhai?ajyaraja, Pradanasura, Ratnacandra, Candraprabha, Pur?acandra,
Mahavikramin, Anantavikramin, Trailokyavikrama, Bhadrapala, Maitreya,
Ratnakara, and Susathavaha. There were altogether eighty thousand such
bodhisattva mahasattvas.
1c
2aThe Lotus Sutra
At that time Sakra, king of the devas, was also there, attended by twenty
thousand devaputras. Candra, Samantagandha, and Ratnaprabha, and the
great devas of the four quarters were there, together with a retinue of ten
thousand devaputras. The devaputras Isvara and Mahesvara were there,
attended by thirty thousand devaputras. Brahma, the lord of the saha world,
as well as the great Brahma Sikhin and the great Brahma Jyoti?prabha were
there, together with a retinue of twelve thousand devaputras. The eight naga
kings—namely, Nanda, Upananda, Sagara, Vasukin, Tak?aka, Anavatapta,
Manasvin, and Utpalaka—were also there, each of them surrounded by several hundreds of thousands of attendants.
There were four kings of the ki?naras whose names were Dharma, Sudharma, Mahadharma, and Dharmadhara, and each had several hundreds of
thousands of attendants. The four kings of the gandharvas were there. They
were Manojña, Manojñasvara, Madhura, and Madhurasvara, each of them
also with several hundreds of thousands of attendants. There, too, were four
kings of the asuras, called Ba?in, Kharaskandha, Vemacitra, and Rahu, each
with several hundreds of thousands of attendants. Mahatejas, Mahakaya,
Mahapur?a, and Maharddhiprapta, the four kings of the garu?as, were there
together with several hundreds of thousands of attendants. Finally, King
Ajatasatru, Vaidehi’s son, was also there with several hundreds of thousands
of his attendants. Each of them, after having bowed at the Buddha’s feet,
withdrew and sat to one side.
At that time the Bhagavat was respectfully surrounded by the fourfold
assembly (i.e., monks, nuns, laymen, laywomen), paid homage, honored,
and praised. He then taught the bodhisattvas the Mahayana sutra called
Immeasurable Meanings (Mahanirdesa), the instruction for the bodhisattvas
and the treasured lore of the buddhas. After having taught this sutra, the
Buddha sat cross-legged, entered the samadhi called the “abode of immeasurable meanings” (ananta-nirdesa-prati??hana) and remained unmoving in
both body and mind. Mandarava and great mandarava flowers, mañju?aka
and great mañju?aka flowers then fell like rain from the sky, scattering upon
the Buddha and all of his attendants; and the whole buddha world quaked in
six ways. At that time, that whole assembly of such humans and nonhumans
as monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen, the devas, nagas, yak?as, gandharvas,
asuras, garu?as, ki?naras, mahoragas, kings, and noble emperors, having
2bChapter I
experienced something unprecedented, were filled with joy, and with their
palms pressed together they gazed attentively at the Buddha.
Then the Buddha emitted a ray of light from the tuft of white hair between
his eyebrows. It illuminated all the eighteen thousand worlds in the east,
down as far as the lowest hell, Avici, and up as high as the Akani??ha Heaven.
All the sentient beings in those worlds living in the six transmigratory states
became visible from this world. The buddhas in those worlds were also seen,
and the Dharma they were teaching could be heard. The monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen and those who had practiced and achieved the path were
also to be seen, while the bodhisattva mahasattvas, of various background
causes and conditions, endowed in various degrees with the willingness to
understand and having various appearances, were also seen practicing the
bodhisattva path. All of the buddhas who had achieved parinirva?a were
seen, as well as their relic stupas made of the seven precious treasures.
At that moment it occurred to Bodhisattva Maitreya: “The Bhagavat has
now manifested the sign of great transcendent power. What could be the reason for this marvel? The Buddha, the Bhagavat, has now entered samadhi.
Whom should I ask about this wonderful marvel? Who would be able to
answer my question?”
Then he thought further: “This Mañjusri, Prince of the Dharma, has
closely attended and paid homage to innumerable buddhas of the past. He
must certainly have seen such a marvelous sign before. I should ask him now.”
At the same time it occurred to the monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen,
devas, nagas, yak?as, and others: “Now whom should we ask about the illumination and marvelous sign of this buddha?”
Then Bodhisattva Maitreya, wanting to clear up his own confusion, and
knowing the minds of the fourfold assembly of monks, nuns, laymen, and
laywomen and of the nagas, yak?as, and other beings in that gathering, asked
Mañjusri: “What is the reason for this marvelous sign, this great ray of light
that illuminates the eighteen thousand worlds in the east and renders visible
the adornments of all the buddha worlds?”
Thereupon Bodhisattva Maitreya, wanting to elaborate the meaning of
this further, spoke to Mañjusri in verse:
“O Mañjusri!
Why has the Leader
2cThe Lotus Sutra
Emitted this great ray of light far and wide
From the tuft of white hair
Between his eyebrows,
Raining down mandarava and mañju?aka flowers,
And gladdening the people
With the fragrant winds of sandalwood?
For this reason
The earth is completely adorned,
And this world quakes in six ways.
And the fourfold assembly
Is completely enraptured,
Delighted in body and mind at the experience of
Such an unprecedented marvel.
From the depths of the Avici Hell
Up to the summit of existence,
The ray of light from between his eyebrows
Illuminates the eighteen thousand worlds,
Which shimmer like gold,
And, throughout all these worlds,
The births and deaths of the living beings
Of the six transmigratory states of existence,
And the good and bad deeds,
Through which they have received
Good and bad consequences,
Are all to be seen from here.
The buddhas, the Sage Lord (Narendrasi?ha),
Who teach the subtle and supreme sutra
Are also seen.
Uttering soft sounds
With their pure voices,
They teach innumerable myriads
Of ko?is of bodhisattvas.
With their voices, deep and enticing
Like the sounds of Brahma
They make the people eager to hear them.
6Chapter I
In each world they teach the True Dharma;
They illuminate the Buddha-Dharma
And enlighten sentient beings
By means of various explanations
And innumerable illustrations.
To those who are suffering
And are cast down by old age, illness, and death
They teach nirvana
To extinguish their sufferings.
To those who have merit,
Have paid homage to the buddhas
And seek the excellent Dharma,
They teach the ideal of the pratyekabuddha.
To those heirs of the buddhas
Who have practiced in various ways
And are seeking the utmost wisdom,
They teach the pure path.
O Mañjusri!
Abiding here, I see and hear
Thousands of ko?is of things in this way.
There are many such things.
I shall now explain them in brief.
In these worlds I see bodhisattvas,
Equal in number to the sands of the Ganges River,
Seeking the path of the buddhas
According to their various situations.
Some undertake the practice of giving gifts,
Joyfully giving gold, silver, coral, pearls,
Jewels, conch shells, agates, diamonds,
Servants, carts, and ornamented litters—
They give these things joyfully,
Transferring the merit
To the path of the buddhas,
Wishing to obtain this vehicle
Which is the highest in the three worlds,
3aThe Lotus Sutra
And praised by all the buddhas.
Other bodhisattvas give gifts
Such as ornamented carts yoked with four horses
And furnished with railings,
Canopies, and decorated eaves.
Moreover, I see bodhisattvas
Who, seeking for the highest path,
Give gifts such as their bodies, flesh, hands,
And feet, as well as their wives and children.
Moreover, I see bodhisattvas
Who are joyfully giving their heads, eyes, and bodies,
While searching for the wisdom of the buddhas.
O Mañjusri!
I see kings making pilgrimages to the buddhas,
Asking about the highest path,
Abandoning their prosperous lands,
Palaces, subjects and harems,
Shaving their heads and beards,
And wearing the robes of the Dharma.
I see some bodhisattvas becoming monks,
Dwelling apart in tranquility,
Reciting the sutras with contentment.
I also see bodhisattvas
Persistent and courageous,
Going into remote mountains
And contemplating the buddha path.
I see some abandoning worldly desires,
Dwelling always in lonely places,
Practicing profound meditations
And obtaining the five transcendent powers.
I see bodhisattvas
Meditating with palms pressed together,
Praising the Kings of the Dharma
With thousands of myriads of verses.
I also see bodhisattvas,
8Chapter I
Profound in wisdom and firm in resolution,
Asking the buddhas questions,
Listening carefully and retaining everything.
Furthermore, I see heirs of the buddhas,
Endowed with concentration and wisdom,
Teaching the Dharma by innumerable illustrations
For the benefit of living beings,
Leading and inspiring the bodhisattvas
By joyously teaching the Dharma,
Destroying Mara and his minions
And beating the drums of the Dharma.
I also see bodhisattvas
Who are tranquil and silent in ease,
And never exult
Even in the homage paid by devas and nagas.
I see bodhisattvas
Dwelling in forests, radiating light,
Alleviating the suffering of beings in the hells
And causing them to enter the buddha path.
I also see heirs of the buddhas
Who have never fallen asleep,
And are constantly wandering in forests
In search of the buddha path.
I see some who are pure like jewels,
Endowed with integrity
And faultless in behavior,
In search of the buddha path.
Furthermore, I see heirs of the buddhas
In search of the buddha path,
Who have the power of perseverance
And patiently endure
Those of excessive pride
Who abuse them verbally and physically.
I see bodhisattvas
Who have been searching for the buddha path
3bThe Lotus Sutra
For thousands of myriads of ko?is of years,
And who have renounced idlers and foolish companions
And approached the wise.
Having singlemindedly rid themselves of inner confusion
They are meditating in mountain forests.
I also see bodhisattvas seeking
For the highest path,
Who are giving food and drink,
And a hundred kinds of medicine
To the Buddha and the sangha.
They give superb garments and clothing
Worth thousands of myriads,
And priceless robes
To the Buddha and the sangha.
They give thousands of myriads of ko?is
Of treasured monasteries made of sandalwood,
And various kinds of excellent bedding
To the Buddha and the sangha.
They give clean garden groves
Full of flowers and fruits,
Fountains and bathing pools
To the Buddha and the sangha.
Thus they give such various excellent things,
With joy and vigor,
Seeking the supreme path.
There are also bodhisattvas
Who are teaching innumerable sentient beings
The Dharma of tranquility
In various ways.
Furthermore, I see bodhisattvas
Who have perceived the essential character
Of all dharmas (phenomena) to be without duality,
Just like empty space.
I also see heirs of the buddhas
Who are seeking the highest path
10Chapter I
Through this subtle wisdom,
Their minds free of attachment.
O Mañjusri!
There are bodhisattvas
Who pay homage to the relics (sariras) of the buddhas
After their parinirva?as.
I also see heirs of the buddhas
Who have built stupas
As numerous as the sands of the Ganges River,
With which to decorate the buddha worlds.
These jeweled stupas are magnificent—
Five thousand yojanas in height and
Two thousand yojanas in both length and width.
On each of these stupas
Are one thousand banners, flags, and canopies,
And jeweled bells ringing harmoniously.
And devas, nagas, humans, and nonhumans
Constantly give offerings of
Perfume, flowers, and music to them.
O Mañjusri!
The heirs of the buddhas
Have decorated the stupas
In order to pay homage to the relics.
These worlds have been spontaneously
Made as extraordinarily beautiful
As the king of the heavenly trees
When his flowers bloom.
Because the Buddha has emitted this ray of light,
I and those with me in the assembly can see
These worlds of marvelous and varied beauty.
The wisdom and transcendent powers
Of all the buddhas are extraordinary;
By emitting a single ray of light
He has illuminated innumerable lands.
Seeing this, we attain
3cThe Lotus Sutra
That which we have not met with before.
O Mañjusri, Heir of the Buddhas!
We entreat you to rid us of our confusion!
The fourfold assembly is joyfully
Looking up at you and me.
Why did the Bhagavat emit this ray of light?
O Heir of the Buddhas, now answer!
Resolve our confusion and gladden us!
Why is he emitting this ray of light?
Will the Buddha teach us the True Dharma
That he obtained while he sat
On the terrace of enlightenment (bodhima??a)?
Will he predict enlightenment to us?
It is not for a trifling reason
That all the buddha lands, ornamented
With various jewels,
And all the buddhas have been made visible.
O Mañjusri!
You should know that the fourfold assembly,
Nagas, and devas,
Look forward to hearing
What you shall reveal.”
Thereupon Mañjusri spoke to Bodhisattva Mahasattva Maitreya and the
other worthy beings: “O sons of a virtuous family! I am very sure that the
Buddha, the Bhagavat, will now teach the great Dharma, rain down the great
Dharma, blow the conch of the great Dharma, beat the drum of the great
Dharma, and reveal the meaning of the great Dharma.
“O sons of a virtuous family! I have seen buddhas in the past who have
shown this marvel and have taught the great Dharma immediately after emitting a ray of light. Therefore, you should know that in the very same way
the Buddha has now emitted this light and has shown this marvel in order
to cause all sentient beings to hear and understand the Dharma which in all
the worlds is difficult to understand.
“O sons of a virtuous family! In the past, more than innumerable, unthinkable, incalculable kalpas ago, there was a buddha called Candrasuryapradipa,
12Chapter I
a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans,
Teacher of Devas and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat. He taught the True
Dharma that was good in the beginning, good in the middle, and good in the
end. It was profound in meaning, elegant in speech, and endowed with the
character of the pure path of discipline and integrity.
“To those seeking for the sravaka vehicle he taught the Dharma with
respect to the Four Noble Truths, causing them to overcome birth, old age,
illness, and death and to attain nirvana. He taught the Dharma with respect
to dependent origination to the pratyekabuddhas; and to the bodhisattvas he
taught the Dharma with respect to the six perfections (paramitas), causing
them to attain highest, complete enlightenment and perfect all-knowledge
(sarvajñata).
“Then there was another buddha named Candrasuryapradipa, and after
him another buddha also named Candrasuryapradipa. And so in this way
twenty thousand buddhas all had the same name Candrasuryapradipa. They
also had the same family name Bharadvaja.
“O Maitreya! You should know that these buddhas, beginning from the
first up to the last, all had the same name Candrasuryapradipa, endowed with
the ten epithets. The Dharma that they taught was good in the beginning, the
middle, and the end.
“The last buddha fathered eight princes before he renounced household
life. The first was called Mati, the second Sumati, the third Anantamati, the
fourth Ratimati, the fifth was called Vise?amati, the sixth Vimatisamudghatin,
the seventh Gho?amati, and the eighth was called Dharmamati. These eight
princes were endowed with dignity and power, and each of them ruled over
four great continents. Having heard that their father had renounced household life and obtained highest, complete enlightenment, all of them abandoned their kingdoms and also renounced household life. Each caused the
spirit of the Mahayana to arise within him, practiced the pure path of discipline and integrity, and became an expounder of the Dharma. They all planted
roots of good merit under many thousands of myriads of buddhas.
“At that time, the Buddha Candrasuryapradipa taught the Mahayana
sutra called Immeasurable Meanings, the instruction for the bodhisattvas
and treasured lore of the buddhas. Having taught this sutra, he sat down
4aThe Lotus Sutra
cross-legged, undisturbed in body and mind among the great assembly and
entered the samadhi called the ‘abode of immeasurable meanings.’
“Then mandarava and great mandarava flowers, mañju?aka and great
mañju?aka flowers fell like rain from the sky, scattering over the Buddha
and all of his attendants. And the whole buddha world quaked in six ways.
At that time all in that assembly of humans and nonhumans—monks, nuns,
laymen, laywomen, devas, nagas, yak?as, gandharvas, asuras, garu?as, ki?-
naras, mahoragas, kings, and noble emperors—having experienced such an
unprecedented marvel, were filled with joy and pressing their palms together
they gazed attentively at the Buddha.
“Then the Buddha emitted a ray of light from the tuft of white hair
between his eyebrows which completely illuminated all the eighteen thousand worlds in the east, in the same way that all of these buddha worlds are
visible now.
“O Maitreya! You should know that at that time there were twenty ko?is
of bodhisattvas in the assembly who wanted to hear the Dharma. All of these
bodhisattvas, having seen all the buddha worlds completely illuminated by this
ray of light, were struck with wonder and wanted to know why it was emitted.
“A bodhisattva named Varaprabha was there with his eight hundred disciples. At that time the Buddha Candrasuryapradipa, having emerged from
samadhi, remained sitting for sixty intermediate kalpas and revealed to Bodhisattva Varaprabha the Mahayana sutra called Saddharmapu??arika, the White
Lotus of the Marvelous Law (hereafter Lotus Sutra), which was the instruction for bodhisattvas and the treasured lore of the buddhas. The assembly also
sat there undisturbed in body and mind listening to the Buddha’s exposition
for sixty intermediate kalpas as if only a single mealtime had passed; during
that time not a single person among them experienced fatigue of body or mind.
“Having taught this sutra for sixty intermediate kalpas, the Buddha Candrasuryapradipa made this proclamation to the assembly of Brahmas, maras,
srama?as, brahmans, devas, humans, and asuras, saying:
On this day during the middle watch of the night, the Tathagata will
enter nirvana without residue.
“Then the Buddha Candrasuryapradipa gave this prediction to a bodhisattva called Srigarbha. Addressing the monks, he said:
4a
4bChapter I
This Bodhisattva Srigarbha will become the next buddha after me. He
will be called Vimala?ganetra, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened.
“The Buddha, after having made this prediction, entered nirvana without residue during the middle of the night. After the Buddha passed into
extinction, Bodhisattva Varaprabha, having preserved the Lotus Sutra, taught
it to humans for the full period of eighty intermediate kalpas.
“This Bodhisattva Varaprabha was made the teacher for the Buddha
Candrasuryapradipa’s eight princes. Varaprabha led and inspired them and
caused them to be firm in highest, complete enlightenment.
“After paying homage to innumerable hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of buddhas, all these princes attained the path of the buddhas.
The last of these to become enlightened was named Dipa?kara.
“Among the eight hundred disciples of Bodhisattva Varaprabha there
was a man named Yasaskama who was attached to profit. Even though he
had repeatedly recited the sutras he never became versed in them and forgot the greater part. That is why he was called Yasaskama, ‘Fame Seeker.’
But because he had also planted various roots of good merit, he was able to
meet innumerable hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of buddhas
whom he rendered homage to, honored, revered, and praised.
“O Maitreya! You should know that Bodhisattva Varaprabha at that
time was none other than myself, and Bodhisattva Yasaskama was none
other than you. The marvel we see here is exactly the same as the previous
one. Therefore I am certain that today the Tathagata will teach the Mahayana
sutra called the Lotus Sutra, the instruction for bodhisattvas and treasured
lore of the buddhas.”
Thereupon Mañjusri, wanting to explain the meaning of this further,
spoke to the great assembly in verse:
I remember that in the past,
Innumerable incalculable kalpas ago,
There was a buddha, the Best of Humans,
Called Candrasuryapradipa.
This Bhagavat taught the Dharma,
Leading and inspiring innumerable sentient beings
15The Lotus Sutra
And incalculable numbers of bodhisattvas,
To attain the wisdom of the buddhas.
Before renouncing household life
The Buddha fathered eight princes.
Having seen the Great Sage
Renounce household life,
They also followed him
And practiced the pure path of discipline and integrity.
At that time the Buddha taught
And extensively illuminated the Mahayana sutra
Called Immeasurable Meanings
To the great assembly.
After having taught this sutra,
The Buddha sat down cross-legged
On the seat of Dharma and entered the samadhi
Called the “abode of immeasurable meanings.”
The heavenly mandarava flowers
Fell down like rain;
The heavenly drums resounded spontaneously.
All the devas, nagas, and yak?as
Paid homage to the Best of Humans.
All of the buddha worlds suddenly quaked greatly.
And the Buddha emitted a ray of light
From the tuft between his eyebrows
And manifested various marvels.
This ray of light illuminated
The eighteen thousand buddha worlds in the east
And revealed the conditions
Resulting from the karma of each sentient being.
Through this light of the Buddha
All the buddha worlds appeared
As if they were decorated with various jewels
Such as lapis lazuli or crystal.
All the devas, humans, nagas,
Yak?as, gandharvas, and ki?naras
4cChapter I
Were each seen paying homage to the buddhas.
All the Tathagatas, who had spontaneously attained
The path of the buddhas,
Looked majestic and very beautiful
With bodies like golden mountains.
Each Bhagavat appeared like a golden image
In the midst of lapis lazuli,
Expounding the meaning
Of the profound Dharma to the great assembly.
There were innumerable sravakas
In each of the buddha worlds,
And they saw all the great assemblies
Because of the light of the Buddha.
There were also monks
Living in mountain forests,
Who, through persistence, possessed purity of conduct,
Which they protected like a precious jewel.
There were bodhisattvas,
As numerous as the sands of the Ganges River,
Practicing by giving (dana), perseverance (k?anti), and so
on (i.e., the six perfections),
Who also became visible through the light of the Buddha.
There were bodhisattvas, who,
Having entered deep samadhi,
Were tranquil and undisturbed in body and mind,
And who were seen seeking for the highest path.
There were also bodhisattvas,
Who, knowing the tranquil character of the Dharma,
Were seen teaching the Dharma
And seeking the path of the buddhas
In each of the buddha worlds.
At that time the fourfold assembly,
Having seen the Buddha Candrasuryapradipa
Manifest these great transcendent powers,
Became delighted, and asked each other
17The Lotus Sutra
What the reason for this could be.
The Noble One, revered by devas and humans,
Then emerged from samadhi and
Praised Bodhisattva Varaprabha, saying:
You are the Eye of the World.
You are believed in by all and
Possess the treasure house of the Dharma.
You are the only one who can understand
The Dharma that I have taught!
The Bhagavat praised Varaprabha, delighting him,
And taught this Lotus Sutra
For the full period of sixty intermediate kalpas
Without rising from his seat.
This expounder of the Dharma, Varaprabha,
Firmly and completely
Preserved this most excellent Dharma
That was taught by the Buddha.
After having taught this Lotus Sutra
And having then gladdened the assembly
On that very day,
The Buddha told the assembly of devas and humans:
I have already taught you the meaning
Of the essential character of all dharmas.
Today I will enter nirvana
In the middle of the night.
Exert yourselves attentively
And rid yourselves of negligence!
The buddhas are extremely hard to meet
And can be encountered only once
In ko?is of kalpas!
All the sons of the Bhagavat,
On hearing that the Buddha was to enter nirvana,
Became sad, thinking:
5aChapter I
Why will the Buddha enter nirvana so soon?
The Noble Lord, the King of the Dharma,
Consoled the innumerable beings saying:
Do not fear after I enter nirvana!
This Bodhisattva Srigarbha has fully realized
The true character of freedom from corruption
And after me he will become
A buddha named Vimala?ganetra.
And then he will bring
Innumerable sentient beings to the path.
And that night the Buddha entered nirvana,
Like a fire that goes out when the wood is exhausted.
His relics were distributed
And innumerable stupas were built.
There were monks and nuns,
As numerous as the sands of the Ganges River,
Who increased their efforts
And sought for the highest path.
This expounder of the Dharma, Varaprabha,
Possessed of the treasure house of the Buddha,
Extensively proclaimed the Lotus Sutra
For eighty intermediate kalpas.
All of the eight princes
Led and inspired by Varaprabha,
Became firmly established
In the highest path,
And met innumerable buddhas.
After having paid homage to the buddhas
And following them in their practice of the great path,
They all in turn received their predictions,
Becoming buddhas in succession.
The last Buddha, the Highest of Devas,
Was called Dipa?kara,
And, as the leader of all the sages,
5bThe Lotus Sutra
Had brought innumerable sentient beings to the path.
This expounder of the Dharma, Varaprabha,
Had one disciple who was lazy
And attached to fame and fortune.
This disciple ceaselessly sought these things
And amused himself from house to house.
He abandoned recitation of the sutras,
And, forgetting them,
Never became versed in them.
For this very reason he was named Yasaskama.
But since he had also performed many good deeds,
He was able to meet innumerable buddhas.
He paid homage to all these buddhas
And having practiced the great path after them,
Acquired all the six perfections and
Now meets the Lion of the Sakyas.
He shall subsequently become a buddha called Maitreya
Who will extensively bring
Innumerable sentient beings to the path.
After the parinirva?a of that
Buddha Candrasuryapradipa,
The lazy one was none other than you;
And the expounder of the Dharma, Varaprabha,
Was no one but myself.
When I saw the Buddha Dipa?kara
He also revealed this marvel of light.
That is why I know that this buddha
Will now teach the Lotus Sutra.
This sign is just like the previous marvel.
It is the skillful means of all the buddhas.
The Buddha has now emitted this ray of light
In order to reveal
The essential character of dharmas.
Now it should be clear to everyone.
Wait attentively with palms pressed together!
20Chapter I
Having rained the Dharma,
The Buddha will satisfy those seeking the path.
If there is anyone seeking the three vehicles
Who still has any doubts,
The Buddha will completely remove them,
Extinguishing them with none left over.
21Chapter II
Skillful Means
At that time the Bhagavat arose tranquilly with insight out of samadhi and
addressed Sariputra: “Profound and immeasurable is the wisdom of the
buddhas. The gate to their wisdom is hard to enter and difficult to understand.
None of the sravakas and pratyekabuddhas may be capable of understanding it. Why is this? The buddhas have closely attended innumerable hundreds
of thousands of myriads of ko?is of other buddhas. They have exhaustively
carried out practices with courage and persistence under uncountable numbers of buddhas, their names becoming universally renowned. They have perfected this profound and unprecedented Dharma, and their intention in adapting their explanations to what is appropriate is difficult to understand.
“O Sariputra! After attaining buddhahood I expounded the teaching
extensively with various explanations and illustrations, and with skillful
means (upaya) led sentient beings to rid themselves of their attachments.
Why is this? Because all the Tathagatas have attained perfect mastery of
skillful means, wisdom, and insight.
“O Sariputra! The wisdom and insight of the Tathagatas is extensive,
profound, immeasurable, and unhindered. They are possessed of power, fearlessness, meditation, liberation, and samadhi that is profound and endless.
They have completely attained this unprecedented Dharma.
“O Sariputra! The Tathagatas can, through various methods, skillfully
illuminate the Dharma with gentle speech and gladden the hearts of the
assemblies.
“O Sariputra! To put it briefly, the buddhas have attained this immeasurable, limitless, and unprecedented Dharma. Enough, O Sariputra, I will
speak no further. Why is this? Because the Dharma that the buddhas have
attained is foremost, unique, and difficult to understand. No one but the
buddhas can completely know the real aspects of all dharmas—that is to say
their character, nature, substance, potential, function, cause, condition, result,
effect, and essential unity.”
5cThe Lotus Sutra
Thereupon the Bhagavat spoke these verses to explain this meaning
again:
The Heroes of the World are inconceivable,
Neither devas, humans, nor any other sentient beings
Are able to comprehend them.
No one is able to discern the power, fearlessness,
Liberation, samadhi, and
Other attributes of the buddhas.
Formerly, under innumerable buddhas,
They have fully accomplished their practices
And the Dharma, which is profound and excellent,
Hard to perceive and difficult to understand.
Having pursued these practices
For innumerable ko?is of kalpas,
I attained the result on the terrace of enlightenment
And understood completely.
I and the buddhas of the ten directions
Know such matters,
Such as the great results and rewards,
And the meaning of various aspects and characteristics.
It is impossible to explain this Dharma;
The powers of speech fail.
No other sentient being is able to understand it,
Except for those bodhisattvas
Who, in their belief, are willing to understand.
Even the multitude of the Buddha’s disciples,
Who have formerly paid homage to all the buddhas,
Who have put an end to all their corruption
And are bearing their last bodies,
Are not able to understand it.
Even if this whole world
Were filled with those such as Sariputra,
And they tried together to comprehend it,
They still would not be able to understand completely
6aThe wisdom of the buddhas.
Again, even if the worlds of the ten directions
Were filled with such disciples
As Sariputra,
And they tried together to comprehend it,
They still would not be able to completely understand.
And even if the worlds of the ten directions
Were filled with pratyekabuddhas,
As numerous as bamboo trees in a grove,
Who had keen wisdom
And were bearing their last bodies,
Free from corruption,
Even if they tried together singlemindedly,
For innumerable kalpas,
To comprehend the wisdom of the buddhas,
Still they would not understand it in the least.
Even if the worlds of the ten directions
Were packed as thick as stalks of rice,
Flax, bamboo, and reeds
With bodhisattvas, recent aspirants to enlightenment,
Who had paid homage to innumerable buddhas—
Though they fully understood the meaning
And could expound the Dharma,
Even with this subtle wisdom,
If they tried together singlemindedly to comprehend,
For as many kalpas as the sands of the Ganges River,
They still would not be able to know
The wisdom of the buddhas.
Even if bodhisattvas,
As numerous as the sands of the Ganges River,
Who had reached the stage of nonretrogression,
Tried together singlemindedly to comprehend it,
Still they would not be able to know.
The Buddha, still speaking to Sariputra, said:
Chapter II
25The Lotus Sutra
I have already attained the profound and subtle Dharma
That is incorruptible
And beyond all comprehension.
Only I and the buddhas of the ten directions know this.
O Sariputra! You should know that the words
Of the buddhas are never inconsistent.
You should trust fully in the Dharma
That the Buddha expounds;
The Dharma of the Bhagavat
Has been in existence for a long time.
I will now definitely expound the truth.
I address myself to the sravakas
And those seeking the pratyekabuddha vehicle.
It was I who caused them to become free
From the bondage of suffering, and to attain nirvana.
I have revealed the teaching of the three vehicles
With the power of the skillful means of the buddhas
So as to free the sentient beings
From their various human attachments.
At that time it occurred to the great assembly of twelve hundred sra-
vakas, arhats free from corruption, beginning with Ajñatakau??inya, and the
other monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen who had set out to become sra-
vakas and pratyekabuddhas: “Why has the Bhagavat just now so earnestly
praised skillful means? For what reason has he declared that the Dharma that
the buddhas have attained is very profound and difficult to understand? Why
has he said that their intention in adapting their teaching to what is appropriate is so difficult to comprehend that all the sravakas and pratyekabuddhas
are not able to understand it?
“As long as the Buddha taught the meaning of the single liberation we
thought we had attained that Dharma and achieved nirvana. But now we do
not understand what he means.”
At that time Sariputra, aware of the confusion of the fourfold assemblies and himself also feeling confused, addressed the Buddha saying: “O
Bhagavat! For what reason and on what grounds have you so earnestly praised
6bthe unique skillful means of the buddhas and the profound and subtle Dharma
that is difficult to understand? Never before have I heard such a thing from
the Buddha. Now Bhagavat, I entreat you to explain this because the fourfold assemblies are confused. O Bhagavat! Why have you so earnestly praised
the Dharma that is profound, subtle, and difficult to understand?”
Thereupon Sariputra, wanting to further explain what he meant, spoke
these verses:
O Great Seer, Sun of Wisdom!
Now, after a long time,
You have taught this Dharma, saying,
I have attained the inconceivable Dharma,
That is to say, power, fearlessness,
Samadhi, meditation, and liberation.
No one has ever questioned the Dharma
That I attained on the terrace of enlightenment.
No one has ever questioned my intentions,
So difficult to conceive.
Without being asked
You explained it by yourself
And praised the path you have practiced, saying,
The wisdom the buddhas have attained
Is extremely subtle!
The arhats free from corruption
And those seeking nirvana
Have all fallen into confusion.
Why has the Buddha said this?
Those seeking to become pratyekabuddhas,
Monks, nuns, devas, nagas,
Yak?as, gandharvas, and the others
Glanced at each other in confusion
And looking toward the Best of Humans asked:
O Buddha! We entreat you to explain why this is so!
Chapter II
27The Lotus Sutra
The Buddha has said that I am the foremost
Among the sravakas, yet now I am confused
About my own knowledge and unable to understand.
Is it the ultimate Dharma?
Is it a path to be practiced?
The sons born from the mouths of the buddhas
Stand waiting with palms pressed together,
Looking at the Buddha.
I entreat you to proclaim the truth,
Speaking in the finest voice!
The devas, nagas, and others,
As numerous as the sands of the Ganges River,
As many as eighty thousand bodhisattvas
Who are seeking buddhahood, and noble emperors
Who have come from myriads of ko?is of countries,
Are all standing respectfully with palms pressed together
Asking how to accomplish the path.
Then the Buddha addressed Sariputra, saying: “Enough, enough! Speak
no more! If I explained this matter, the devas and humans in all the worlds
would be astounded.”
Then Sariputra again addressed the Buddha: “O Bhagavat! Please explain
it! I entreat you to explain it, because in this assembly there are innumerable
hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of incalculable sentient beings,
sharp in faculties and possessed of wisdom, who have previously encountered the buddhas. When they hear the teaching of the Buddha they will trust,
believe, and accept it.”
Thereupon Sariputra spoke in verse to explain this again:
O King of the Dharma, the Best of Humans!
I entreat you to explain it.
Please explain it without hesitation!
In this assembly there are innumerable sentient beings
Who will trust and accept it.
Then the Buddha again tried to dissuade Sariputra, saying: “If I explain
6cit, the devas, humans, and asuras in all the worlds will be astounded, and
arrogant monks will certainly go to their downfall.”
At that time the Bhagavat again spoke in verse:
Enough, enough! Speak no more!
The Dharma that I have attained
Is excellent and incomprehensible.
Though the arrogant hear it,
They will never accept it.
And again Sariputra addressed the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! Please
explain it! Please explain it! In this assembly there are people like me and
others, numbering into the hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of
beings, who have been led and inspired by the buddhas in their former existences. Such people will certainly trust, believe, and accept it. And they will
benefit, profit, and receive solace from it for a very long time.”
Thereupon Sariputra spoke these verses to elaborate on what he meant:
O Best of Humans!
Please teach the ultimate Dharma!
I am the eldest son of the Buddha.
Please illuminate and explain it!
Innumerable beings in this assembly
Will certainly trust and accept this Dharma,
Because the Buddha in former existences
Led and inspired such people.
All of them will attentively listen and accept,
Their palms pressed together,
To the words of the Buddha.
I entreat you to illuminate and explain it
For the assembly of twelve hundred people like me,
And the others seeking buddhahood.
When they hear this Dharma
They will bring forth great joy.
Then the Bhagavat spoke to Sariputra, saying: “You have now persistently asked me three times. How could I possibly not explain it to you?
Chapter II
7aThe Lotus Sutra
Therefore listen carefully and pay close attention! I will now illuminate and
explain it.”
When he said this, five thousand monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen
in the assembly immediately got up from their seats, bowed to the Buddha,
and left. What was the reason for this? Because the roots of error among this
group had been deeply planted and they were arrogant, thinking they had
attained what they had not attained and had realized what they had not realized. Because of such defects they did not stay. And the Bhagavat remained
silent and did not stop them.
Then the Buddha addressed Sariputra: “My assembly here is free of useless twigs and leaves; only the pure essence remains.
“O Sariputra! Let the arrogant ones go! Listen carefully and I will explain
it to you.”
Then Sariputra replied: “Indeed, O Bhagavat, I greatly desire to hear it.”
Then the Buddha addressed Sariputra: “Only very rarely do the Buddha
Tathagatas teach such a True Dharma as this, as rarely as the u?umbara
flower blooms.
“O Sariputra! Trust and accept what the Buddha teaches! My words are
never false.
“O Sariputra! The real intention of all the buddhas in adapting their
explanations to what is appropriate is difficult to understand. Why is this?
Because I have expounded the teachings with innumerable skillful means
and various kinds of explanations and illustrations. Yet this Dharma is beyond
reason and discernment. Only the buddhas can understand it. Why is this?
Because the Buddha Bhagavats appear in this world for one great purpose
alone. O Sariputra! Now I will explain why I said that the Buddha Bhagavats appear in this world for only one great purpose.
“The Buddha Bhagavat appear in this world to cause sentient beings to
aspire toward purity and the wisdom and insight of the buddhas. They appear
in this world to manifest the wisdom and insight of the buddhas to sentient
beings. They appear in this world to cause sentient beings to attain the wisdom
and insight of a buddha’s enlightenment. They appear in this world in order to
cause sentient beings to enter the path of the wisdom and insight of a buddha.
“O Sariputra! For this one great reason alone the buddhas have appeared
in this world.”The Buddha addressed Sariputra, saying: “The Buddha Tathagatas lead
and inspire only bodhisattvas. All the acts of a buddha are always for one
purpose. The buddhas manifest their wisdom and insight solely to inspire
sentient beings to enlightenment.
“O Sariputra! A Tathagata teaches sentient beings the Dharma only
through the single buddha vehicle. There is no other, neither a second nor a
third.
“O Sariputra! The true nature of all the buddhas of the ten directions is
exactly like this.
“O Sariputra! All the buddhas of the past expounded the teachings for
the sake of sentient beings, using incalculable and innumerable skillful means
and various explanations and illustrations. These teachings were all for the
sake of the single buddha vehicle. All these sentient beings, hearing the
Dharma from the buddhas, finally attained omniscience.
“O Sariputra! All the future buddhas who will appear in the world will
expound the teachings for the sake of sentient beings, using incalculable and
innumerable skillful means and various explanations and illustrations. These
teachings will all be for the single buddha vehicle. All sentient beings who
hear this Dharma from these buddhas will ultimately attain omniscience.
“O Sariputra! All the Buddha Bhagavats of the present, in immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of buddha worlds of the ten
directions, teach the Dharma to sentient beings using incalculable and innumerable skillful means with various explanations and illustrations to benefit
many of them and cause them to feel at peace. These Dharmas are all of the
single buddha vehicle. All the sentient beings who hear the Dharma from
these buddhas will ultimately attain omniscience.
“O Sariputra! These buddhas lead and inspire only bodhisattvas, because
they want to teach sentient beings with the wisdom and insight of the Buddha,
to enlighten sentient beings with the wisdom and insight of the Buddha, and
to cause sentient beings to enter the path of the wisdom and insight of the
Buddha.
“O Sariputra! I too am now like this. Having understood the various
desires and deep-rooted inclinations of sentient beings, I teach the Dharma
according to their capacities through the power of skillful means, using various explanations and illustrations.
Chapter II
7bThe Lotus Sutra
“O Sariputra! I do this in order to cause them to attain the omniscience
of the single buddha vehicle.
“O Sariputra! Since there is no second vehicle in the worlds of the ten
directions, how could there be a third!
“O Sariputra! The buddhas appear in the troubled world of the five defilements, which are the defilement of the kalpa, the defilement through desire’s
confusion, the defilement of sentient beings, the defilement of views, and
the defilement of lifespan. Therefore, O Sariputra, in the period of the decadent kalpa, because sentient beings are filthy, greedy, jealous, and develop
roots of error, all the buddhas illuminate the three [vehicles] with the power
of skillful means in order to teach the single buddha vehicle.
“O Sariputra! If any of my disciples declare that they are arhats or
pratyekabuddhas, and do not listen or comprehend that all the Buddha Tatha-
gatas teach only the bodhisattvas, they are not disciples of the buddhas, nor
are they arhats or pratyekabuddhas.
“Again, O Sariputra! If there are any monks or nuns who would declare
that they have attained arhatship, that they are bearing their last bodies and
are destined for complete nirvana, and yet who have not sought highest, complete enlightenment, they should be considered arrogant people.
“Why is this? Because there is no case in which a monk who has actually achieved arhatship does not believe in this Dharma, except after the
Buddha has entered parinirva?a and there is no buddha present.
“What is the reason for this? Because after the parinirva?a of the Buddha
it is hard to find people who preserve, recite, and understand the meaning of
the sutras like this. But if they should meet other buddhas they will immediately understand this teaching.
“O Sariputra! You should wholeheartedly accept and preserve the words
of the Buddha. The words of the Buddha Tathagatas are never false. There
are no other vehicles, only the single buddha vehicle.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate the meaning of this further, uttered these verses:
In the fourfold assembly there were five thousand
Monks and nuns who were excessively proud,
Laymen who were arrogant,
And laywomen who were unaccepting.
7cThey did not see their own defects,
Being faulty in self-discipline,
And clung to their shortcomings;
These of little wisdom have already left.
Through the virtuous dignity of the Buddha
The dregs of the assembly have departed.
Having little virtue,
These people were incapable of accepting this Dharma.
Free of useless twigs and leaves,
Only the pure essence of this assembly remains.
O Sariputra, listen carefully!
All the buddhas teach the Dharma
That they have attained
Through the immeasurable power of skillful means,
For the sake of sentient beings.
Completely knowing their intentions,
Their various ways of practice,
Their wishes and capacities,
And the good and bad karma
Of their previous lives,
The Buddha gladdens all sentient beings
With the power of words and skillful means,
Using examples and illustrations.
The Buddha teaches by means of sutras, verses,
Stories of his past deeds, and of past events,
Miraculous tales, explanatory tales,
Allegories, poems, and exegeses.
The Buddha teaches nirvana
To those with dull faculties,
Who are satisfied with lowly aspirations
And attached to birth and death,
Who have not practiced the profound path
In the presence of innumerable buddhas
And are confused by suffering.
Having devised this skillful means
Chapter II
8aThe Lotus Sutra
I enable them to enter the wisdom of the buddhas.
But I have never said
That all of you would attain
The path of the buddhas.
I have never said this
Because the occasion never arose.
Now is precisely the right time for me
To teach definitively the Mahayana.
I apply these nine kinds of teachings
According to the capacities of sentient beings.
I teach these sutras
Because they are the basis for entering the Mahayana.
I teach the Mahayana sutras
To those heirs of the buddhas
Who are pure in mind, mild, and receptive,
Have keen faculties,
And who have practiced the profound path
Under immeasurable buddhas.
I predict that such people
Will attain the path of the buddhas
In their future lives,
Because they keep the buddhas in mind
With profound thoughts
And practice pure conduct.
Hearing that they shall attain buddhahood
They will be filled with great joy;
Because a buddha knows their intentions
He teaches the Mahayana.
Those sravakas or bodhisattvas,
Who have heard even a single verse
Of the Dharma that I have taught,
Will all become buddhas.
There can be no doubt about it.
In the buddha worlds of the ten directions
There is only the Dharma of the single vehicle.Apart from the skillful means of the buddhas,
There is neither a second nor a third [vehicle].
A buddha merely uses provisional words
In order to lead sentient beings.
All the buddhas appear in the world
To teach the wisdom of the buddhas.
Only this one thing is real,
The other two are not true.
In the end,
A buddha does not save sentient beings
Through an inferior vehicle.
The buddhas themselves
Abide in the Mahayana;
The Dharma that they have attained,
Is adorned with meditation, wisdom, and power;
And through these they save the sentient beings.
I would be ungenerous
If I were to lead and inspire even a single person
Through an inferior vehicle,
Having attained the highest path,
The universal Dharma of the Mahayana.
This is simply not possible.
If anyone takes refuge in the Buddha,
The Tathagata will not deceive him.
A Tathagata has neither stinginess nor jealousy
And has detached himself
From the evils of the phenomenal world.
That is why the buddhas of the ten directions
Are the only ones who have no fear.
Having a body adorned with the marks of a buddha,
Emitting a ray of light that illuminates the worlds
And revered by immeasurable sentient beings,
I teach the signs of the true aspects
Of the phenomenal world.
O Sariputra! You should now know
Chapter II
8bThe Lotus Sutra
That originally I made a vow
To make all sentient beings my equal
Without any difference.
Now I have already fulfilled this vow
That I made in the past.
I will lead and inspire all sentient beings
And cause them to enter the path of the buddhas.
If I met sentient beings
And taught them till the end the path of the buddhas,
Those with little understanding
Would be confused and perplexed
And would not accept the teaching.
I know that these sentient beings
Have never cultivated the roots of good merit.
They are attached to the desires of the five senses,
Disordered by delusion and passion,
And have fallen into the three troubled states of being
Because of these desires.
They are wandering through
The six transmigratory states,
Tormented by every kind of suffering.
They are continually being born as tiny embryos
In one world after another.
These people of few qualities and little merit
Are afflicted by various sufferings.
They enter into the jungle of sixty-two false views
Such as “This exists” or “This does not exist.”
They are so firmly and deeply attached to false teachings
That they cannot get rid of them.
They are arrogant, proud, deceitful, and dishonest.
They have heard neither the names
Nor the True Dharma of the buddhas
For thousands of myriads of ko?is of kalpas.
Such people are difficult to save.
That is why, O Sariputra, I devised the method of teachingThe way to extinguish all suffering through nirvana.
Even though I taught nirvana,
It is not the true extinction.
Every existing thing from the very beginning
Has always had the mark of quiescence.
The heirs of the buddhas who practice this path
Will thereafter become buddhas in the future.
With the power of skillful means
I have presented the teachings of the three vehicles.
Yet all of the Bhagavats
Teach the path of the single vehicle.
This great assembly
Should now rid itself of confusion.
The words of the buddhas are not inconsistent.
There is only the single vehicle;
There is no other.
In the past innumerable kalpas
There appeared immeasurable and incalculable buddhas,
Hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is in number,
Who have attained parinirva?a.
All the Bhagavats
Taught the characteristics of all dharmas
With the power of innumerable skillful means,
Using various examples and illustrations.
All these Bhagavats
Taught the Dharma of the single vehicle,
Led and inspired immeasurable sentient beings,
And enabled them to enter the path of the buddhas.
Understanding the deepest desires of the entire world
Of the devas, humans, and other beings,
The Great Sage Lord has illuminated
The highest meaning
With diverse skillful means.
All those sentient beings
Who encountered and heard the teaching
Chapter II
8cThe Lotus Sutra
Of the buddhas of the past,
And who accumulated various merits
Through acts of giving (dana), integrity (sila), perseverance (k?anti),
Diligence (virya), meditation (dhyana), and wisdom (prajña)
(i.e., the six perfections)
Have certainly attained the path of the buddhas.
And after the parinirva?a of the buddhas,
Those sentient beings with well-governed minds
Have certainly attained the path of the buddhas.
After the buddhas attained parinirva?a,
All those who paid homage to the relics,
Who made myriads of ko?is of stupas
Extensively and beautifully adorned with gold, silver,
Crystal, mother of pearl, agate, ruby,
Lapis lazuli, and pearl;
Those who made rock stupas,
Stupas out of sandal, aloe, deodar, and other woods,
As well as brick, tile, mud, and other materials;
All those who made buddha stupas
Out of piles of earth in desolate places;
And even children in play
Who made buddha stupas out of heaps of sand—
All such people have certainly attained
The path of the buddhas.
And all those who made images of the buddhas
Carved with their extraordinary marks
Have certainly attained the path of the buddhas.
All those who made buddha images
Out of the seven treasures,
Decorated with brass, copper, pewter, lead,
Tin, iron, wood, mud, glue, lacquer, and cloth,
Have certainly attained the path of the buddhas.
All those who made or had others make buddha images
Painted with the one hundred embellishing
Marks of merit,
9aHave certainly attained the path of the buddhas.
This even includes children in play
Who have drawn a buddha image
With a blade of grass or a twig,
Brush or fingernail.
Such people, having gradually accumulated merit
And perfected great compassion,
Have certainly attained the path of the buddhas.
Leading and inspiring the bodhisattvas,
They save countless sentient beings.
All those who paid homage to stupas,
Sculpted or painted images,
Honoring them with flowers, perfumes,
Banners, and canopies;
Those who paid homage with all kinds of sweet music—
With drums, horns, conches, pipes, flutes, lutes, harps,
Mandolins, gongs, and cymbals;
Those who joyfully praised the qualities of the buddhas
With various songs or
Even with a single low-pitched sound,
Have certainly attained the path of the buddhas.
Those who, even with distracted minds
Have offered a single flower to a painted image
Will in time see innumerable buddhas.
Or those who have done obeisance to images,
Or merely pressed their palms together,
Or raised a single hand, or nodded their heads,
Will in due time see immeasurable buddhas.
They will attain the highest path
And extensively save innumerable sentient beings.
They will enter nirvana without residue
Just as a fire goes out after its wood is exhausted.
Those who, even with distracted minds,
Entered a stupa compound
And chanted but once, “Homage to the Buddha!”
Chapter II
39The Lotus Sutra
Have certainly attained the path of the buddhas.
Anyone who heard this teaching,
Either in the presence of a past buddha
Or after their parinirva?a,
Has certainly attained the path of the buddhas.
The future Bhagavats, Tathagatas,
Immeasurable in number,
Will teach the Dharma with skillful means.
All the Tathagatas
Will save sentient beings
With immeasurable skillful means,
Causing them to enter the wisdom of the buddhas
That is free from corruption.
Of those hearing this Dharma
There will be no one
Who will not become a buddha.
The original vow of the buddhas
Was to cause all sentient beings to universally
Attain the very same buddha path
That I have practiced.
Even though the buddhas of the future
Will teach hundreds of thousands of ko?is
Of innumerable paths to the Dharma,
Their teachings will actually be
For the sake of the single vehicle.
All the buddhas, the Best of Humans,
Know that all dharmas are ever without substance
And that the buddha-seeds germinate
Through dependent origination.
That is why they will teach the single vehicle.
Having realized on the terrace of enlightenment
That the state of the Dharma
Is permanent and unchangeable in this world,
The Leaders will teach with skillful means.
The present buddhas of the ten directions,
9bAs numerous as the sands of the Ganges River,
Revered by devas and humans,
Appear in the world and teach this Dharma
To make sentient beings feel at peace.
They know the utmost tranquility,
And although they teach various paths
With the power of skillful means,
Their teachings are actually for the buddha vehicle.
Knowing the character of sentient beings—
Their deep intentions, past acts,
Wishes, persistence, and strength,
Their keen or dull faculties—
The buddhas teach with skillful means
Using various explanations, illustrations, and words,
In accordance with the capacities of sentient beings.
Now I too reveal the path of the buddhas
Through various paths to the Dharma
To make sentient beings feel at peace.
Through the power of my wisdom
I know the dispositions and desires of sentient beings,
And explain various teachings with skillful means,
Enabling them all to obtain joy.
O Sariputra!
You should know that through the buddha-eye
I see beings wandering in the six states of existence
Who are poor, deprived of merit and wisdom,
Who are entering into the bitter path of birth and death,
And are suffering repeatedly and without end.
They are deeply attached to the desires of the five senses,
Just as yaks are attached to their tails.
Obstructed by greed, they are blind and cannot see.
They do not seek the buddha who has great power,
Nor the Dharma that cuts off suffering.
Deeply immersed in false views,
They try to eliminate suffering through suffering.
Chapter II
9cThe Lotus Sutra
I feel great compassion
For such sentient beings.
Sitting on the terrace of enlightenment for the first time,
Looking at the bodhi tree
And walking about,
During those twenty-one days
I was thinking thus:
The wisdom I have attained
Is subtle and supreme.
But the faculties of sentient beings are dull.
They are attached to pleasures and blinded by delusion.
How can I save such beings?
Then Brahma and his devaputras, Sakra,
The world-protectors of the four quarters,
Mahesvara and the other devas,
Together with a retinue of hundreds
Of thousands of myriads of attendants,
Paid their respects with palms pressed together
And begged me to turn the wheel of the Dharma.
Then I thought:
If I only praise the buddha vehicles,
Those beings who are submerged in suffering
Will not believe this Dharma.
Because they reject and do not believe the Dharma,
They will fall into the three troubled states of being.
I would rather not teach the Dharma
And instead immediately enter nirvana.
Then I thought of the power of skillful means
Practiced by past buddhas.
This path that I have attained
Should now also be taught as the three vehicles.
When I thought this,The buddhas of the ten directions appeared
And with beautiful voices praised me saying:
O Sakyamuni! Splendid!
O Supreme Leader,
You have attained the highest Dharma,
And yet still use the power of skillful means,
Following all the other buddhas.
We too have attained the best and utmost Dharma
And with discretion have explained the three vehicles
For the sake of sentient beings.
Those with little wisdom
Seek inferior teachings
And do not believe that they will become buddhas.
That is why we use skillful means
And with discretion teach of various results.
Although we teach the three vehicles
It is just for the instruction of the bodhisattvas!
O Sariputra!
You should know
That when I heard this profound
And beautiful roar of the Noble Lions,
I chanted with joy, “Homage to the buddhas!”
And I thought:
Since I have been born in this defiled world
I will follow the other buddhas
And expound what they have expounded.
After contemplating this
I set out for Vara?asi.
All dharmas have the tranquil character
Of the Dharma:
This could not be expressed in words,
So I taught the five monks
Chapter II
10aThe Lotus Sutra
Through the power of skillful means.
This I named: “Turning the Wheel of the Dharma,”
And immediately the word nirvana appeared in it
And the different designations for Arhat (Buddha),
Dharma, and Sangha.
From a great many kalpas ago
I have always taught like this:
I have praised and illuminated
The teaching of nirvana,
Saying that it ends the sufferings
Of birth and death.
O Sariputra!
You should know that I see
Immeasurable thousands of myriads of ko?is
Of the Buddha’s heirs,
Who, having set out for the buddha path,
And heard the Dharma explained with skillful means,
Have respectfully come before the Buddha.
Then I thought:
The reason why the Tathagatas appear is
To explain the wisdom of the buddhas.
Now is precisely the right time for this!
O Sariputra!
You should know that
Those who have dull faculties and little wisdom,
And those who are attached to mere signs and
Are arrogant cannot accept this teaching.
Now I am happy and fearless.
Having openly set aside skillful means,
I will teach only the highest path
To all the bodhisattvas.
Having heard this teaching
The bodhisattvas and twelve hundred arhats,
Freeing themselves from the web of doubt,Will all become buddhas.
Just as the buddhas in the three periods
Of the past, present, and future,
Teach the true nature of the Dharma,
Now I too will expound the Dharma
That is beyond conception.
All the buddhas
Appear in worlds far away
And are difficult to meet.
Even if they appear in this world
It is difficult to hear their teaching.
Even in immeasurable, innumerable kalpas
It is difficult to hear this Dharma,
And those who are able to hear this Dharma
Are also hard to find.
They are just like the u?umbara flower
Which appears only once in a very long while
And, beloved by all,
Is considered a wonder among devas and humans.
Those who, hearing this teaching,
Happily praise the buddhas
By uttering even a single word
Have already paid homage to all buddhas
Of the three periods.
Such people are even more extraordinary
Than the u?umbara flower.
All of you, have no doubts!
I, the King of the Dharma,
Now proclaim to the great assembly:
I lead and inspire the bodhisattvas
Only with the path of the single vehicle;
I am here without disciples.
O Sariputra and all of you!
The sravakas and bodhisattvas should know
Chapter II
10bThe Lotus Sutra
That this True Dharma is the hidden essence
Of all the buddhas.
In the troubled worlds of the five kinds of defilement,
Sentient beings are only attached to various desires,
And ultimately do not seek the path of the buddhas.
In the future the impure will hear
The Buddha teach the single vehicle,
But they will be confused and will not accept it.
They will reject the Dharma
And fall into the troubled states of being.
To those who are modest and pure,
And seek the path of the buddhas,
I will praise extensively
The path of the single vehicle.
O Sariputra!
You should know that the Dharma
Of all the buddhas is like this.
They teach the Dharma
With myriads of ko?is of skillful means,
According to the capacities of sentient beings;
The inexperienced cannot understand this.
You have come to know with certainty the skillful means
Of the buddhas, the Teachers of the World,
That are expounded in accordance
With people’s capacities.
All of you, have no further doubts!
Let great joy arise in your hearts
And know that you will all become buddhas!Chapter III
A Parable
Thereupon Sariputra stood up ecstatic and joyful, pressed his palms together
and, gazing at the Buddha, the Bhagavat, said: “Now, hearing the words of
this Dharma from the Bhagavat, my heart is full of joy for I have experienced something unprecedented. What is the reason for this? In the past when
I heard this Dharma from the Buddha and saw the bodhisattvas receive their
predictions, I was not included. I grieved because I thought I had been deprived
of the immeasurable wisdom and insight of the Tathagata.
“O Bhagavat! While I was dwelling alone under forest trees, whether
sitting or walking, I was constantly thinking this: ‘Since we have also realized the true nature of the Dharma, why has the Tathagata tried to save us
with the teachings of the inferior vehicle?’
“The fault is ours, not the Bhagavat’s. Why is this? If we had waited for
your explanation about the way to achieve highest, complete enlightenment,
we certainly would have been able to save ourselves by means of the
Mahayana. However, we did not understand that you were teaching with
skillful means, according to what is appropriate to us. When we first heard
the Buddha’s teaching, we immediately accepted, contemplated, and understood it.
“O Bhagavat! Since long ago I have reproached myself incessantly day
and night. But now from the Buddha we have heard the unprecedented Dharma
that we have never heard before, and it has removed all our doubts.
“I have obtained peace and tranquility in body and mind. Today I have
finally realized that I am truly the heir of the Buddha, born from the mouth
of the Buddha, incarnated from the Dharma, and that I have inherited a part
of the Buddha-Dharma.”
Then Sariputra, wanting to elaborate this meaning, spoke again in verse:
When I heard the words of this Dharma,
Experiencing something unprecedented,
10cMy heart overflowed with joy,
And I was rid of all my doubts.
From long ago, ever since I heard
The teaching of the Buddha,
I have not lost the Mahayana.
The words of the buddhas are extremely rare
And are capable of ridding sentient beings
Of their suffering.
Although I had already attained
Freedom from corruption,
By hearing the Buddha’s voice,
I have also been rid of my anxiety.
Whether I was dwelling
In mountain valleys or under forest trees,
Whether I was sitting or walking,
Grieving and blaming myself deeply,
I thought incessantly:
How have I deceived myself!
I am also the heir of the buddhas,
Having entered the same incorruptible Dharma.
Nevertheless, in the future,
I shall not be able to explain the highest path.
The golden color, the thirty-two marks,
The ten powers, and the liberations
Are all in the same Dharma;
And yet I have not attained any of these.
Moreover, such qualities as
The eighty excellent and eighteen special characteristics
Are completely lost to me.
When I was wandering alone,
I saw the Buddha in the great assembly
Filling the ten directions with his fame
And greatly benefiting sentient beings.
I then thought:
The Lotus Sutra
11aChapter III
I have lost all these benefits
Because I have been deceiving myself.
I thought about this constantly day and night
And wanted to ask the Bhagavat:
Have I or have I not lost these?
I always saw the Bhagavat
Praising the bodhisattvas.
That is why I pondered over such matters
As these both day and night.
Now I have heard the words of the Buddha,
Explaining to sentient beings
The incorruptible Dharma,
Which is difficult to comprehend,
And making them enter
The terrace of enlightenment.
Formerly, I was attached to false views
And was a teacher of brahmans.
The Bhagavat, knowing my mind,
Removed the false views and taught nirvana.
I got rid of false views completely
And attained the teaching of emptiness.
At that time I considered myself
To have attained nirvana.
But now I have become aware
That this was not the real nirvana.
When I become a buddha
I shall be endowed with the thirty-two marks,
And be honored by devas, humans, yak?as, and nagas.
Only then can it be said that I have
Permanently attained nirvana without residue.
Before the great assembly
The Buddha has proclaimed
That I will become a buddha.After hearing these words of the Dharma,
I was immediately rid of all my doubts.
When I first heard this teaching of the Buddha’s,
I was greatly startled and thought:
I wonder if Mara, acting like the Buddha,
Is confusing me!
But the Buddha, who teaches skillfully
By means of various explanations and illustrations,
Has made my mind tranquil like the ocean.
While listening to him
I was freed from the web of my doubts.
The Buddha has said that immeasurable buddhas
Who have attained parinirva?a in the past,
Established in the use of skillful means,
Have also taught this Dharma.
Immeasurable buddhas in the present and future
Will also teach this Dharma
With various skillful means.
The present Bhagavat,
From the time he was born
And renounced household life
Until he obtained the path
And turned the wheel of the Dharma,
Has also taught through skillful means.
The Bhagavat teaches the real path,
But the Wicked One does not.
Therefore I know definitely
That it was not Mara acting like the Buddha.
Because I fell into a web of doubt,
I thought that Mara was impersonating the Buddha.
When I heard the voice of the Buddha,
Profound and very subtle,
Fluently explaining the pure Dharma,
I became full of great joy.
The Lotus Sutra
11bMy doubts are completely and forever exhausted,
And I have achieved the true wisdom.
I will definitely become a buddha,
Honored by devas and humans.
I will turn the wheel of the highest Dharma
And lead and inspire the bodhisattvas.
At that time the Buddha said to Sariputra: “I will now reveal to you
before the great assembly of devas, humans, srama?as, and brahmans that
in the past, in the presence of two hundred thousand ko?is of buddhas, I led
and inspired you constantly for the sake of the highest path. You have followed my instructions for a long time. Because I led you with skillful means,
you were born in my Dharma.
“O Sariputra! In the past I inspired you to seek the buddha path. Yet just
now you had completely forgotten this and considered yourself to have
attained nirvana. Now, because I want you to remember the path that you
practiced according to your original vow in the past, I will teach the sra-
vakas the Mahayana sutra called the Lotus Sutra, the instruction for the bodhisattvas and treasured lore of the buddhas.’
“O Sariputra! In the future after immeasurable, limitless, and inconceivable kalpas, you will have paid homage to thousands of myriads of ko?is
of buddhas, preserved the True Dharma, and mastered the path practiced by
the bodhisattvas. You will become a buddha called Padmaprabha, a Tatha-
gata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct,
Well-Departed, Knower of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans,
Teacher of Devas and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat.
“Your land will be called Viraja. Its earth will be level and pure, ornamented, peaceful, and rich. The devas and humans will prosper. The earth
will be made of lapis lazuli with a well-planned network of roads like a chessboard bordered with golden cords. Rows of seven-jeweled trees, which are
always full of flowers and fruits, will line the borders of these roads. The
Tathagata Padmaprabha will also lead and inspire sentient beings by means
of the three vehicles.
“O Sariputra! When that buddha appears, even though his will not be a
troubled world, he will teach the three vehicles because of his original vow.
Chapter III
51This kalpa will be called Maharatnapratima??ita, meaning ‘Adorned with
Great Jewels.’ Why will it be called Maharatnapratima??ita? Because in that
world the bodhisattvas will be like great jewels. The number of these bodhisattvas will be immeasurable, limitless, inconceivable, and beyond all comparison, known only by those with the power of the Buddha’s wisdom.
“When they want to walk they will step on jeweled flowers. And these
bodhisattvas will not be those who are just setting out. Over a long time they
will have planted roots of good merit and practiced the pure path of discipline and integrity in the presence of immeasurable hundreds of thousands
of myriads of ko?is of buddhas. They will always be praised by the buddhas
and continually practice the buddha wisdom. They will be endowed with
transcendent powers and know well all the teachings of the Dharma. They
will be honest, without falsity, and firm in recollection. That world will be
filled with bodhisattvas like these.
“O Sariputra! The lifespan of this buddha Padmaprabha will be twelve
intermediate kalpas, not including the period after he becomes a prince and
before he becomes a buddha; and the lifespan of the people in that world
will be eight intermediate kalpas.
“After these twelve intermediate kalpas have passed, the Tathagata
Padmaprabha will predict Bodhisattva Dh?tiparipur?a’s attainment of highest, complete enlightenment and will address the monks, saying:
This Bodhisattva Dh?tiparipur?a will become the next buddha after
me. His name will be Padmav??abhavikrama, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened. His buddha world will also be like this one.
“O Sariputra! After the parinirva?a of the Buddha Padmaprabha the
True Dharma will remain in the world for thirty-two intermediate kalpas and
the Semblance Dharma will also remain in the world for thirty-two intermediate kalpas.”
Then the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this again,
spoke these verses:
O Sariputra! In the future
You will become a buddha of universal wisdom
Named Padmaprabha,
Who will save innumerable sentient beings.
The Lotus Sutra
11cHaving paid homage to innumerable buddhas,
Perfected the bodhisattva practice,
And the qualities, including the ten powers,
You will attain the highest path.
After immeasurable kalpas have passed,
The kalpa will be called Prabhutaratna,
And the world will be called Viraja,
Pure and without dirt.
The earth will be made of lapis lazuli
And the roads, bordered with golden cords,
Will be lined with variegated trees of the seven treasures
Which are always full of flowers and fruits.
The bodhisattvas in that world
Will be always firm in recollection.
All of them will be completely endowed
With transcendent powers and the perfections
And will have properly practiced the bodhisattva path
In the presence of innumerable buddhas.
Such mahasattvas as these
Will be led and inspired by the Buddha Padmaprabha.
When this buddha becomes a prince
He will abdicate his kingship
And give up his worldly fame.
Bearing his last body,
He will renounce household life
And attain the path of the Buddha.
This Buddha Padmaprabha will live in the world
For twelve intermediate kalpas.
And the lifespan of the people in this world
Will be eight intermediate kalpas.
After the parinirva?a of this buddha,
The True Dharma will last in the world
For thirty-two intermediate kalpas,
During which time many sentient beings
Will be saved.
Chapter III
12aAfter the extinction of the True Dharma,
The Semblance Dharma will last
For thirty-two intermediate kalpas.
The relics of the Buddha
Will be distributed widely
And devas and humans will pay them homage.
All that the Buddha Padmaprabha does
Will be exactly like this.
That very Best of Humans,
Who will be foremost and without comparison,
Is none other than you.
You should be delighted to hear this!
At that time the fourfold assembly of monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen and the great assembly of devas, nagas, yak?as, gandharvas, asuras,
garu?as, ki?naras, and mahoragas saw Sariputra receive his prediction of
highest, complete enlightenment in the presence of the Buddha. They rejoiced
greatly and became immeasurably happy. All of them removed their outer
garments and proffered them to the Buddha as offerings.
Sakra, the lord of devas, and Brahma, together with innumerable devaputras also made offerings to the Buddha of their heavenly beautiful garments, heavenly mandarava flowers, and great mandarava flowers. Their
heavenly garments floated and fluttered in the air, while in the sky the devas
played hundreds of thousands of myriads of kinds of music together at one
time. They rained down various heavenly flowers and said: “In the past the
Buddha turned the wheel of the Dharma for the first time in Vara?asi. Now
he has turned the wheel of the utmost and greatest Dharma again.”
Thereupon the devaputras spoke these verses in order to explain this
again:
In the past you turned the wheel of the Dharma
Of the Four [Noble] Truths in Vara?asi;
And you illuminated and explained the Dharma
Of the origination and extinction of the five aggregates.
You have now again turned the wheel
Of the subtlest, utmost, and greatest Dharma.
The Lotus Sutra
54This Dharma is extremely profound;
Only a few will be able to believe it.
Since long ago we have frequently heard
The teaching of the Bhagavat,
Yet we have never before heard
Such a profound and supreme teaching.
When the Bhagavat taught this Dharma
We were all delighted.
And now Sariputra, possessed of great wisdom,
Has received his prediction from the Bhagavat.
In the same way, we too,
Shall certainly become buddhas.
We shall become peerless,
Unrivaled in all the world.
The path of the Buddha,
Which is difficult to understand,
Is taught with skillful means
According to what is appropriate for sentient beings.
May the merits of our beneficial acts,
Whether of the past or the present,
And those acquired in meeting the Buddha,
Be completely transferred to the buddha path.
At that time Sariputra said this to the Buddha: “O Bhagavat! I now have
no further doubts. I have received the prediction of the highest supreme
enlightenment in the presence of the Buddha.
“When all those twelve hundred who have attained complete mental
discipline were still under training in the past, the Buddha constantly led
and inspired them, saying: ‘My teaching overcomes birth, old age, illness,
and death and it leads to nirvana.’ Both those who were still in training and
those who were not thought that they were free from false views about the
self, existence and nonexistence, and declared that they had attained nirvana.
Yet now, in the presence of the Bhagavat, they have heard what they have
never heard before and have fallen into doubt.
“Splendid, O Bhagavat! I entreat you to explain to the fourfold assembly the reason why, and free them from their doubts!”
Chapter III
12bThen the Buddha said to Sariputra: “Did I not previously tell you that
all the Buddha Bhagavats explain the Dharma with various explanations and
illustrations using skillful means, all for the sake of highest, complete enlightenment!? All of these teachings are for leading and inspiring the bodhisattvas.
“Moreover, Sariputra, I will now clarify what I mean with illustrations.
Those with wisdom will be able to understand through these illustrations.
“O Sariputra! Suppose there were an aged and extremely affluent man,
either in a town, city, or country, who has immeasurable wealth, abundant
estates, mansions, and servants. He has a spacious house, yet it only has a
single entrance. Suppose many people live there, as many as one, two, or
even five hundred people. The buildings are in poor repair, the fences and
walls are crumbling, the pillar bases are rotten, and the beams and framework are dangerously tilted.
“Suddenly and unexpectedly, fires break out everywhere, setting the
house swiftly aflame. The children of this man, ten, twenty, or thirty in number are in the house.
“The affluent man, seeing the fire breaking out everywhere, becomes
alarmed and terrified. He thinks:
I am capable of escaping through the burning entrance in safety, but
my children are absorbed in play within the burning house and are not
aware [of the fire], do not know, are not alarmed or terrified, and the
fire is approaching them! They are not troubled about their suffering
nor do they intend to leave the house.
“O Sariputra, this affluent man thought:
Since I am still physically strong I could take the children out of the
house in the folds of my garment or on top of a desk.
“He further thought:
There is only one entrance to this house and it is very narrow. The children, who are immature and still unaware, are attached to their place
of play. They may fall into danger and be burned by the fire. I should
now tell them of the danger; this house is already burning! They must
escape as quickly as they can to avoid being burned by the fire!
The Lotus Sutra
56“After considering this he urged the children according to his thought:
Children! Run out immediately!
“Although their father in his concern has given them the proper advice,
the children are immersed in their play and do not accept it; they are neither
alarmed nor afraid and have no intention of leaving [the burning house].
Moreover, they do not even know what a fire is, the condition of the house,
or what they may lose. They merely run about, back and forth, looking at
their father.
“Thereupon the affluent man thought:
This house is already engulfed in flames. If my children and I do not
get out, we shall perish in the fire. I will now use skillful means to help
my children escape from this disaster.
“Since the father already knew that his children were attached to various rare toys and unusual things that each of them liked, he said to them:
The toys you are fond of are rare and hard to obtain. If you do not take
them you will certainly regret it later. Right now, outside the house,
there are three kinds of carts. One is yoked to a sheep, one to a deer,
and one to an ox. Go play with them. Children! Run out of this burning house immediately and I will give you whatever you want!
“The children, hearing what their father had said about the rare toys,
became excited and, in their eagerness to get to them they pushed each other
out of the way in a mad rush out of the burning house.
“Then the affluent man saw that his children had got out safely and were
sitting unharmed in an open area at a crossroad. He was relieved, happy, and
joyful. The children said to their father:
Father, please give us the toys you promised: those [three] carts, one
yoked to a sheep, one to a deer, and one to an ox!
“O Sariputra, the affluent man then gave each child the same kind of
large cart. These carts were tall and spacious, adorned with various jewels,
and encircled with railings full of hanging bells. On the tops of the carts were
canopies also decorated with various kinds of jewels. These carts were draped
Chapter III
12cwith jeweled cords and hung with flower garlands. They were thickly piled
with fabrics, and red pillows had been placed about. These carts were each
yoked to an ox with a spotlessly white hide. These oxen had beautiful bodies with powerful muscles, even gaits, and were as swift as the wind; and
there were many attendants guarding them. Why did the affluent man give
these carts? Because the man had great and immeasurable wealth and his
abundant storehouses were full. He thus thought further:
Since my treasure has no limit, I should not give my children inferior
carts. These are my children and I love them all equally. I have an
immeasurable number of large carts such as these, decorated with the
seven treasures. I should equally distribute them to each child without
discrimination. Why is this? Even if I gave carts like these to everyone in the country, their number would not be exhausted. Why should
I not give them to my own children?
“At that time, the children each climbed into a great cart and had an
unprecedented experience, one beyond their original expectations.
“O Sariputra! What do you think about this? This affluent man gave to
his children equally a large cart decorated with precious treasures. Has he
deceived them or not?”
Sariputra replied: “No Bhagavat! The affluent man only tried to help
his children escape from the disastrous fire. He saved their lives and did not
deceive them. This is by no means a deception. Why? Because by saving
their lives they obtained marvelous toys. Moreover, they were saved from
the burning house by skillful means.
“O Bhagavat! If this affluent man had not given them even the smallest
cart, it still would not have been a deception. Why is this? Because this
affluent man thought before:
I will help my children escape with skillful means.
“This is why it was not a deception. How much more so, since the affluent
man, knowing that he had immeasurable wealth and wanting to benefit them
equally, gave each of his children a large [ox]cart.”
The Buddha said to Sariputra: “Splendid, splendid! It is exactly as you
have said. O Sariputra, the Tathagata is also just like this. That is to say, as
The Lotus Sutra
13athe father of the entire world, he permanently dispels fear, distress, anxiety,
ignorance, and blindness. He has attained immeasurable wisdom, insight,
power, and fearlessness, as well as great transcendent powers and the power
of wisdom. He has attained the perfection of skillful means and of wisdom.
With his great mercy and compassion he incessantly and indefatigably seeks
the welfare of all beings and benefits them all.
“The Tathagata appears in the triple world, which is like a decaying old
house on fire, to rescue sentient beings from the fire of birth, old age, illness,
and death, anxiety, sorrow, suffering, distress, delusion, blindness, and the
three poisons of greed, hatred, and ignorance. Thus he leads and inspires
sentient beings and causes them to attain highest, complete enlightenment.
“The Tathagatas see all sentient beings burning in the fire of birth, old
age, illness, and death, anxiety, sorrow, suffering, and distress. Because of
the desires of the five senses and the desire for monetary profit they also
experience various kinds of suffering. Because of their attachment and pursuits they experience various kinds of suffering in the present; and in the
future they will suffer in the states of existence of hell, animals, and hungry
ghosts (pretas). If they are born in the heavens or in the human world they
will experience a variety of sorrows such as suffering from poverty and destitution, separation from loved ones, or suffering from encounters with those
they dislike.
“Although sentient beings are immersed in such sorrows, they rejoice
and play. They are not aware, shocked, startled, or disgusted nor do they
seek release. Running around in the burning house of the triple world, they
experience great suffering and yet they do not realize it.
“O Sariputra! Seeing these things the Buddha thought:
Since I am the father of sentient beings I must rid them of their immeasurable suffering and distress. I will cause them to rejoice through the
immeasurable and limitless pleasure of the buddha wisdom.
“O Sariputra! The Tathagata further thought:
If I proclaim the Tathagata’s wisdom, insight, power, and fearlessness
to sentient beings with my transcendent powers and the power of my
wisdom alone, without using skillful means, it will be impossible to
Chapter III
13bsave them. Why is this? Because these sentient beings have not escaped
from birth, old age, illness, and death; anxiety, sorrow, suffering, and
distress; and are being burned in the blazing house of the triple world.
How would they be able to understand the Buddha’s wisdom?
“O Sariputra! Although that affluent man had physical strength he did
not use it. He only earnestly employed skillful means to save his children
from the disaster of the burning house, and later he gave each of them a large
cart decorated with precious treasures. The Tathagata is exactly like this.
“Although the Tathagata has power and fearlessness he does not use
them, but rescues sentient beings from the burning house of the triple world
only through wisdom and skillful means, teaching the three vehicles to the
sravakas, pratyekabuddhas, and the buddhas, saying:
Do not take pleasure in living in this burning house of the triple world.
And do not thirst after inferior objects, sounds, smells, flavors, and
tangibles. If you are attached to these objects and have desires, then
you will be burned. Leave the triple world in haste and you will obtain
the three vehicles—the vehicles for the sravakas, pratyekabuddhas,
and buddhas. I definitely guarantee this to you. In the end it will come
true. You should be diligent and persistent!
“The Tathagata attracts sentient beings through this skillful means, saying further:
You should know that the Noble Ones praise the teachings of these
three vehicles that are self-directed, unrestricted, and independent.
When they ride in them, sentient beings will enjoy faculties free from
corruption and also powers, paths to enlightenment, meditation, liberation, and concentration. And they themselves will attain immeasurable ease and pleasure.
“O Sariputra! Those beings, wise by nature, who accept the Dharma
from the Buddha Bhagavat, who are diligent, persistent, and wish to escape
from the triple world quickly, and who are seeking nirvana, are all practicing the sravaka vehicle. They are like those children who left the burning
house seeking the cart yoked to a sheep.
The Lotus Sutra
60“Those beings who accept the Dharma of the Buddha Bhagavat, who
are diligent and persevere in seeking the wisdom of the Self-generated One
and enjoy tranquility for themselves, who profoundly know the causes of
and reasons for existence, are all practicing the pratyekabuddha vehicle.
They are just like those children who left the burning house seeking the cart
yoked to a deer.
“Those beings who accept the Dharma of the Buddha Bhagavat, who
are diligent and persevere in seeking the wisdom of the Omniscient One, the
wisdom of the Buddha, the wisdom of the Self-generated One, the wisdom
acquired without a teacher, the wisdom and insight, powers, and fearlessness of the Tathagata; who are compassionate, put immeasurable sentient
beings at ease, benefit devas and humans, and save all beings, are all practicing the Mahayana. Bodhisattvas are called mahasattvas (great beings)
because they seek this vehicle. They are just like those children who left the
burning house seeking the cart yoked to an ox.
“O Sariputra! That affluent man saw his children leave the burning house
safely and arrive at a safe place. Knowing that he had immeasurable wealth,
he gave a large cart equally to each child. The Tathagata is exactly like this.
As the father of all sentient beings he sees that immeasurable thousands of
ko?is of sentient beings escape from the dangers, sufferings, and fears of the
triple world through the gates of the Buddha’s teaching and attain the pleasure of nirvana.
“Then the Tathagata thought:
Because I possess the treasure house of the Dharma of all the buddhas,
which contains immeasurable limitless wisdom, power, and fearlessness,
and because all sentient beings are my children, I will give them equally
the Mahayana. I will not allow anyone to attain nirvana merely for himself but will cause everyone to attain it through the Tathagata’s nirvana.
I will give sentient beings who have escaped from the triple world
all the toys of the Buddha’s meditations and liberations, which are of
one character and one kind, are praised by the Noble Ones, and which
produce pure and supreme pleasure.
“O Sariputra! At first that affluent man attracted his children with three
kinds of carts, then later gave them only the safest and best large [ox]cart,
Chapter III
13cadorned with jewels. Moreover, that affluent man was never accused of telling
a lie. The Tathagata is exactly like this. He tells no lies.
“In the beginning the Tathagata teaches the three vehicles in order to
lead sentient beings. And later he saves them through only the Mahayana.
Why is this? Because the Tathagata possesses the treasure house of the
Dharma, which contains immeasurable wisdom, power, and fearlessness.
And although he is able to give the teaching of the Mahayana to all sentient
beings, not all of them can accept it.
“O Sariputra! You should know that the buddhas, with the power of
skillful means, teach the single buddha vehicle, dividing and teaching it as
three.”
Then the Buddha, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this again,
spoke these verses:
Suppose there were an affluent man
Who had a large house,
And this house was very old,
On the verge of collapsing.
The halls were extremely dangerous,
The pillar bases rotten and disintegrating,
The beams and framework dangerously tilted,
And the stairways were falling apart.
The fences and walls were cracked,
The plaster was peeling off,
The thatched roof was falling down,
The rafters and eaves were coming apart,
The partitions were everywhere askew,
And the whole place was covered with filth.
Five hundred people lived there,
And moving around helter-skelter were
Kites, owls, hawks, eagles, crows, magpies,
Doves, pigeons, lizards, snakes, vipers,
Scorpions, centipedes, millipedes,
Newts, myriapods, ferrets, badgers, mice,
Rats, and other harmful creatures.
The Lotus Sutra
62It was filled with stench,
And there were places overflowing with excrement.
All kinds of bugs
Had gathered there.
There were foxes, wolves, and vermin
Devouring, trampling, and gnawing on corpses,
Scattering bones and flesh about;
And a pack of dogs,
Forcing each other out of the way,
Rushed to the spot—
Frightened and exhausted from hunger,
They were searching everywhere for food,
Fighting among themselves, snatching at food,
Biting, snarling, and barking at each other.
This house was terrifying,
Corrupted to this grotesque condition:
Ogres of the mountains and valleys,
Yak?as, and demons were everywhere
Devouring human flesh.
There were various poisonous insects,
All kinds of harmful birds of prey,
And beasts who were producing, rearing,
And protecting their offspring.
Yak?as were scrabbling and fighting to devour them.
And after sating themselves,
Evil thoughts would arise in them.
The sound of their fighting
Was terrifying.
The kumbha??a demons were crouching on the ground,
Sometimes rising up a foot or two.
Roaming about, pleasing themselves as they liked,
They would catch two legs of a dog,
Beat it until it could not bark
And grabbing the dog’s neck with their legs,
Terrify it for their own amusement.
Chapter III
14aThere were also other demons living there
With large bodies, naked, dark, and gaunt.
They were screaming horrifying howls,
Crying out while searching for food.
Other demons were there,
Some with needlelike throats,
While others had necks
Like a cow’s head;
Some had those of human flesh-eaters or dog-devourers.
Their hair was disheveled like rank weeds
And they were destructive and malicious.
Driven by hunger and thirst,
They were crying and scurrying about.
Yak?as, hungry ghosts,
And various malicious birds and beasts
Were peering out of the windows
And running frantically in all directions,
Driven by hunger.
In this house, with its immeasurable terrors,
There were many such horrendous things as these.
Now suppose this old and decaying house
Belonged to a man,
And this man came out from it a short distance.
Soon after, the house suddenly
Burst into flames behind him.
The fire instantly spread in all directions.
The frame, beams, rafters, and pillars exploded,
And shaking, split and crashed,
While the fences and walls collapsed.
All the demons screamed out loudly.
The hawks, eagles, other birds,
And kumbha??a demons, panicked and terrified,
Could not get out.
Malicious beasts and poisonous insects
Concealed themselves in holes.
The Lotus Sutra
64There were also pisaca demons dwelling there
Who, because of little merit,
Were chased by the flames.
They were tearing at each other,
Drinking blood and eating flesh.
A horde of vermin had already died off,
And the large malicious beasts
Raced to devour them,
While the smoke of the stench flowed
And filled everywhere.
As the centipedes, millipedes,
And poisonous snakes rushed,
Burning, out of their holes
The kumbha??a demons devoured them
One after another.
The hungry ghosts, with their hair on fire,
Ravenous, thirsty, and suffering from the heat,
Frantically scurried about.
In this way, the house was extremely terrifying
With poison and fire,
And disasters more than one.
Then the householder, who was standing
Outside the entrance of the house,
Heard someone say:
Just a moment ago,
In the midst of their play,
Your children entered this house.
Being young and ignorant,
They are attached to playing games.
Hearing this, the affluent man was startled
And went into the burning house
To save them from the disaster of the fire.
As he thought fit, he warned the children
And explained the various dangers:
Chapter III
14bThere are malicious demons, poisonous insects,
And the fire is raging everywhere.
There are endless horrors,
One right after another.
There are poisonous snakes, lizards, vipers,
Yak?as, kumbha??a demons, vermin,
Foxes, dogs, hawks, eagles, kites,
Owls, and centipedes, all acutely suffering
From hunger and thirst
And all extremely terrifying.
These horrors are difficult to deal with,
How much more so the conflagration!
But the children, being ignorant,
Would not listen to their father’s warning.
Still attached to their games,
They kept right on playing.
Thereupon the affluent man thought:
My children by doing this
Increase my distress!
There is nothing to enjoy now in this house.
Nevertheless, my children who are absorbed in play
Will not accept my instructions
And so will be hurt by the fire.
Then he immediately thought
That he should advise his children
Using various skillful means, and said:
I have a variety of unusual toys
Such as fine carts adorned with beautiful treasures,
Yoked to sheep, deer, and oxen.
They are just outside the gate.
O children! Come out of the house!
I had these carts made for you.
Play with them as you like!
The Lotus Sutra
66Hearing about these carts,
The children immediately started
To push each other out of the way
To get out of the house.
Arriving at an open area,
They escaped from the disaster.
The affluent man, seeing that his children
Had escaped from the burning house
And were standing at the crossroads,
Sat down on his lion seat.
Then he joyously said:
Now I am happy!
It is extremely difficult to raise these children.
Foolish and ignorant,
They entered a dangerous house
Full of various poisonous insects,
Terrifying ogres from mountains and valleys,
And a raging fire that broke out in all directions.
In spite of this,
These children were attached to playing their games.
But by causing them to escape from the disaster,
I have saved them.
Therefore, my people, I now feel at ease.
Thereupon the children,
Seeing their father sitting in peace,
Approached him saying:
Please, father,
Give us the three kinds of carts
Adorned with treasures
That you just promised us,
When you said that if we, your children, came out
You would give us three kinds of carts
Just as we like.
Chapter III
14cNow is the right time.
Give them to us right away!
This affluent man,
Who was extremely wealthy,
Had an abundance of treasures.
He had a number of great carts made,
Adorned with various precious things
Like gold, silver, lapis lazuli,
Mother-of-pearl, and agate.
They were beautifully decorated,
Encircled with railings,
And were covered with hanging bells
Attached to golden cords.
Over them was hung a net of pearls
With golden flower tassels
Hanging down everywhere.
They were all completely
Decorated in a variety of colors.
The bedding was made of soft silk
That was covered with
An extremely fine carpet of spotless white
Which cost thousands of ko?is.
There were large white oxen,
Healthy and powerful with beautiful bodies,
Yoked to the jeweled carts,
And they were guarded by many attendants.
When they were given these fine carts,
The children were joyful and excited.
They got on the carts
And drove delightedly all about.
Amusing themselves in play,
They mastered them without difficulties.
The Buddha said to Sariputra:
The Lotus Sutra
68I am also like this.
I am the father of the world,
The best of the sages.
All sentient beings are my children.
They are deeply attached to worldly pleasures
And have no wisdom.
There is no peace in the triple world,
Just like in the burning house,
Which is full of various suffering
And which is extremely terrifying.
There are always the sufferings
Of birth, old age, illness, and death.
Such fires as these burn endlessly.
The Tathagata, who has already left
The burning house of the triple world,
Lives in tranquility
And dwells at ease in the forest.
Now this triple world is my property
And the sentient beings in it are my children.
There are now many dangers here
And I am the only one who can protect them.
Although I give them advice,
They do not accept it,
Because they are tainted with desires
And have deep attachments.
On this occasion
I teach the three vehicles
Using skillful means.
Realizing the sufferings of the triple world,
I reveal and explain it
To cause sentient beings to
Escape from the mundane path.
If these children are resolute,
They are endowed with the three knowledges
Chapter III
15aAnd six transcendent powers.
Or they can become pratyekabuddhas or
Bodhisattvas who have reached
The stage of nonretrogression.
O Sariputra!
I explain the single buddha vehicle
To sentient beings, using this illustration.
If you are able to accept what I say,
You will all attain the buddha path.
This vehicle is subtle, pure, and peerless.
There is nothing superior to it
In all the worlds.
This is what the Buddha enjoys.
All the sentient beings should praise,
Honor, and revere it.
There are immeasurable thousands of ko?is
Of powers, liberations, meditations,
Wisdoms, and other attributes of the Buddha.
I cause my children to obtain such a vehicle
And let them play continuously,
Day and night, for kalpas.
I cause the bodhisattvas as well as the sravakas
To board this jeweled vehicle,
And lead them directly
To the terrace of enlightenment.
For this reason,
There is no other vehicle but
The skillful means of the buddhas,
Even if one seeks in all the ten directions.
I tell you, O Sariputra:
All of you are my children,
And I am thus your father.
Since you were burned by the fire
Of various sufferings for many kalpas,
I saved you all
The Lotus Sutra
70By leading you out of the triple world.
Although I have previously told you
About your parinirva?a,
You have only extinguished birth and death
And have not actually attained nirvana.
You should now seek only
The wisdom of the Buddha.
If there are any bodhisattvas in this assembly,
They should listen singlemindedly
To the real teaching of all the buddhas.
Those sentient beings
Whom the Buddha Bhagavats
Lead and inspire with skillful means
Are all bodhisattvas.
Because people have little knowledge
And are deeply attached to pleasures,
I teach them the truth of suffering (i.e., the First Noble Truth).
And those sentient beings rejoice,
Having attained
Such an unprecedented experience.
The truth of suffering taught by the Buddha
Is nothing but the truth.
To those who do not know the origin of suffering (i.e., the Second
Noble Truth),
Who are deeply attached to its causes
And unable to abandon them even for a while,
I teach the truth about the path to its cessation
Using skillful means.
All the causes of suffering
Originate from excessive craving.
When this craving is extinguished,
The source is removed.
The cessation of suffering
Is called the Third [Noble] Truth.
One practices the path leading to its cessation (i.e., the Fourth Noble
Truth]
Chapter III
15bIn order to attain the truth of cessation.
Removing the bonds of sufferings is called liberation.
In what sense have these people attained liberation?
They have merely removed false views
And called that liberation.
But actually, they have not yet completely attained it.
The Buddha has explained that these people
Have not actually attained nirvana:
I do not intend to lead them to nirvana
Because they have not yet attained the highest path.
I am the Lord of the Dharma
And have mastered the Dharma.
I appear in the world
To cause sentient beings to be at peace.
O, you, Sariputra!
Teach this my Dharma sign
To benefit the world!
Wherever you may go,
Never propagate it recklessly.
You should know that those who hear,
Rejoice, and fully accept it
Have reached the stage of nonretrogression.
Those who accept the teaching of this sutra
Have formerly seen the buddhas in the past,
Honored, and paid homage to them,
And also heard this teaching.
Those who are able to accept what you teach,
Will see me, you, the monks and the bodhisattvas.
This very Lotus Sutra shall be taught
Only to the profoundly wise.
Those of superficial awareness who hear it
Will become confused and will not comprehend it.
This sutra is beyond the comprehension
Of all the sravakas and pratyekabuddhas.
O, you, Sariputra!
The Lotus Sutra
72Even you understood this sutra only through faith;
It is no wonder that the other disciples cannot.
They accept this sutra
Because they believe the Buddha’s teaching,
But it is beyond their intellectual comprehension.
O Sariputra!
Never teach this sutra
To those who are arrogant and lazy,
Or to those who hold
False views about the self.
Never teach it to those people
Of superficial awareness,
Who are deeply attached
To the desires of the five senses,
Since even if they heard it,
They would not understand.
Those people who will not accept
And who disparage this sutra,
Will consequently destroy the seed of the Buddha
In the entire world.
Now listen to what I teach
About the results of the errors of those people
Who frown upon and have doubts about this sutra.
Listen also to what I teach
Concerning the results of the errors of those people,
Who, whether at the time
Of the Buddha’s presence in this world
Or after his parinirva?a, disparage this sutra,
And despise, hate, and hold grudges
Against the people who recite, copy, and preserve it.
When such people die,
They will go to the Avici Hell,
And after spending a kalpa there,
Will be born in the same way
Again and again for innumerable kalpas.
Chapter III
15cAfter coming out of this hell,
They will be reborn as animals.
If born as dogs or vermin,
Their bodies will be emaciated, dark-spotted,
Devoid of hair, with scabies and leprosy.
Tormented, hated, and despised by people,
They will constantly suffer from hunger and thirst.
With withered bones and flesh,
They will be in anguish while living
And covered with stones after death.
Because they destroyed
The seed of the Buddha,
They will suffer the consequences
Of their errors.
If they are born as camels or mules,
They will always have heavy burdens to carry.
They will be whipped repeatedly
And think of nothing but water and grass.
It is because they disparaged this sutra
That they suffer the consequences of their errors in this way.
If they are born as vermin and enter a village,
Children will beat them because they have scabies,
Leprosy, and perhaps a missing eye.
At times they will be tortured even to death.
After dying,
They will be reborn as giant snakes
With great bodies as long as five hundred yojanas.
Deaf, dumb, legless, slithering on their bellies,
Eaten at by small insects,
They will suffer day and night without respite.
They suffer the consequences of their errors in this way,
Because they disparaged this sutra.
If they are born as humans,
They will have dull faculties
And be runts who twitch and are crippled,
The Lotus Sutra
74Blind, deaf, and humpbacked.
No matter what they may say
People will not believe them.
Their breath will always be foul.
They will be snatched at by demons.
Being poor and degraded and enslaved by others,
They will be emaciated from many illnesses
And will have nowhere to turn.
When they approach others,
They will be disdained.
Even if they manage to get something
They will immediately lose it.
Even if they study medicine
And cure themselves according to the correct method,
They will suffer from other illnesses again
And may even die.
When they get sick
No one will tend to them;
And even if they take the proper medicine
Their pain will increase.
Every hand will be turned against them,
Threatening them, pilfering and stealing from them.
They will fall helplessly into this plight
Because of their transgressions.
Such erring people will never see
The Buddha, the king of seers,
Preaching the Dharma and leading and inspiring people.
Such people will always be born
Into difficult circumstances.
Crazed, unheeding, and unthinking,
They will never hear the teaching.
They will be born deaf and dumb,
With defective faculties
For as many immeasurable kalpas
As the sands of the Ganges River.
Chapter III
75Though they will always find themselves in hell,
They will feel as if they were playing
In a pleasure garden.
Although they are in other troubled states of being,
They will feel as if they were in their own home.
They will live among camels, mules, boars, and dogs.
These are the results of their error
In disparaging this sutra.
If they are born as human beings,
They will be deaf, blind, mute,
Impoverished, and decrepit.
Such will be their adornments.
They will have dropsy, gonorrhea,
Scabies, leprosy, and tumors.
Such diseases as these will be their clothing.
Their bodies will always be foul, filthy, and impure.
Their deep attachment to false views
About the self will cause
Their anger and passion to increase.
Their sexual desires will be insatiable,
With either birds or beasts as their objects.
These are the results of their
Errors in disparaging this sutra.
The Buddha said to Sariputra:
If one were to explain
The consequences of the errors
Of those who disparage this sutra,
It would take more than a kalpa.
For that reason I am now telling you
Never to expound this sutra
To those who have little wisdom.
You should teach it
Only to those people of sharp faculties
Who are wise, learned, and understanding,
The Lotus Sutra
16aWho have good memories and erudition,
And are seeking the buddha path.
You should teach it to those who have seen
Hundreds of thousands of ko?is of buddhas,
Who have planted good roots, and are resolute.
Teach it to those who strive,
Always practice compassion,
And give unsparingly of their bodies and lives.
You should teach it to those who are respectful
And devoid of hypocrisy,
Who are living alone
In mountains and valleys away from fools.
O Sariputra!
You should teach it
To those who have left their bad companions
And made friends with virtuous people.
Teach it to the heirs of the Buddha
Who have good conduct, are as pure as jewels,
And who are seeking the Mahayana sutras.
You should teach it
To those who are free of anger,
Honest, flexible, always sympathetic to everyone,
And who honor all the buddhas.
Teach it to the heirs of the Buddha
In the great assembly,
Who have pure thoughts
And who teach the Dharma without doubts,
Using various reasonings,
Illustrations, and explanations.
You should teach it to those monks
Who, always and everywhere in search of the Dharma,
Seek the Omniscient One,
To whom they joyfully press their palms together,
Touch their heads, and preserve
Only the Mahayana sutras with pleasure,
Chapter III
77Who never preserve even a single verse
Of any other sutra.
Teach it to those who seek this sutra
As intently as they seek for the relics of the Buddha,
Who after obtaining it will accept it
Respectfully, with bowed heads;
And will not seek any other sutra
And will never think about heretical scriptures.
O Sariputra! I say to you:
I have described the characteristics of those
Who seek the buddha path,
Though a kalpa would not suffice to do so in full.
You should teach the Lotus Sutra
To those who are able to accept it.
The Lotus Sutra
16bChapter IV
Willing Acceptance
At that time the noble Subhuti, Mahakatyayana, Mahakasyapa, and Maha-
maudgalyayana, having heard the unprecedented teaching from the Buddha
and the Bhagavat’s prediction of Sariputra’s highest, complete enlightenment, were filled with wonder and ecstatic joy. They immediately rose from
their seats, straightened their garments, leaving their right shoulders bared,
and touched their right knees to the ground. With rapt attention and with
palms pressed together they bowed in veneration and, gazing at the Bhagavat’s face, said to the Buddha: “We are the seniors of the sangha, old and
feeble. We considered ourselves to have attained nirvana and to be incapable
of further seeking highest, complete enlightenment, so we did not do so.
“It has been a long time since the Bhagavat taught the Dharma in the
past. Now we sit with weary bodies and only contemplate emptiness, signlessness, and wishlessness. Neither the bodhisattva teaching, nor the carefree
sporting with transcendent powers, nor the pure buddha worlds, nor helping
sentient beings attain enlightenment produced any eager desire in us.
“Why is this? Because the Bhagavat caused us to leave the triple world
and to attain nirvana. But now we are old and feeble. We did not take even
a single thought of pleasure in the Buddha’s inspiration of the bodhisattvas
to highest, complete enlightenment. And now in the presence of the Buddha
we have heard the sravakas receive their prediction of highest, complete
enlightenment and we are very joyful to have obtained such an unprecedented experience. We never considered that we would suddenly be able to
hear this marvelous teaching; and we are overjoyed that we have attained
such great benefits—an immeasurable treasure which we attained, though
unsought and unawaited.
“O Bhagavat! We now wish to give an illustration to clarify what we
mean: Suppose there were a man who, when he was still a child, left his
father and ran away. Living in another region for a long time he passed the
age of ten, twenty, even fifty years. The older he got the more impoverished
79The Lotus Sutra
he became. He went searching everywhere for food and clothing, and while
he was wandering about he started back by chance in the direction of his
native country. From the first the father had looked for his son but in vain;
in the meantime he had stayed in the city and become extremely wealthy,
and now possessed uncountable treasures.
“[The father’s] storehouses were all filled to overflowing with gold, silver, lapis lazuli, coral, amber, crystal, and other such things. He had many
servants, subordinates, and clerks as well as innumerable elephants, horses,
carriages, cows, and sheep. He profited through lending and his trade with
other countries was also great.
“Then the impoverished son, after wandering through many villages,
from one country and city to another, finally reached the city where his father
lived. Although the father had constantly thought about the son from whom
he had been separated for over fifty years, he nevertheless had spoken to no
one about it. He brooded and grieved in his heart, thinking to himself:
I have become old and feeble; and although I have many treasures, and
storehouses filled with gold, silver, and precious jewels, I have no son.
When I die my treasures will be scattered and lost for lack of someone to whom to entrust them.
“It was for this reason that he was always thinking anxiously about his
son. He also thought:
If I could get my son back and leave my fortune to him I would be
relieved and happy, and without further worry.
“O Bhagavat! At that time the impoverished son, who had been wandering about, taking odd jobs, by chance finally reached his father’s house.
Standing at the side of the gate he saw his father in the distance sitting on
the lion seat with his feet propped up on a jeweled stool, respectfully surrounded by many brahmans, k?atriyas, and householders. His body was
adorned with pearl necklaces worth thousands of myriads. He was attended
on both sides by clerks and servants holding whisker fans. Above was a jeweled canopy with various hanging flowered banners. Perfume was sprinkled
on the ground, which was strewn with a variety of beautiful flowers. There
16cChapter IV
were rows of precious objects, and people were coming and going, buying
and selling. With various trappings such as these, the father appeared very
majestic indeed.
“The impoverished son, seeing his father wielding such great power,
became terrified and regretted that he had ever come to that place. He thought
to himself:
He must be a king or of a similar rank. This is not a place where I can
obtain things as a hired worker. It would certainly be better for me to
go to a poor village, a place where I can use my ability and easily obtain
clothing and food. If I stay here for very long I will be seized and put
to forced labor.
“Thinking this way, he quickly fled. At that time the wealthy man, sitting on the lion seat, realized that he had seen his son and became extremely
happy. He then thought:
Now there is someone to whom I can leave my fortune and treasures.
I have been constantly thinking about my son but had no way to meet
him, and now suddenly he has come. This is exactly what I wanted.
Although I am old I still yearn for him.
“The man immediately dispatched his attendants to chase his son and
bring him back. Then the attendants quickly ran and overtook him. The
impoverished son was frightened and cried out in fear:
I did nothing wrong! Why are you seizing me?
“The attendants grabbed him more firmly and forced him to return. Then
the impoverished son thought:
They have seized me even though I have done nothing wrong. I shall
certainly be killed.
“He was so terrified that he collapsed unconscious on the ground. His
father, seeing this from a distance, told the attendants:
I don’t need him. Don’t force him to come! Pour cold water on his face
and bring him to consciousness. Don’t say anything more to him.
17aThe Lotus Sutra
“What was the reason for this? The father knew that his son was of lowly
aspiration, and that his own wealth and position would cause him problems.
Although the father knew without doubt that the man was his son, he used
skillful means and did not say to others, ‘This is my son.’
“The attendant then said to the son:
You are free to go wherever you wish.
“Then the impoverished son, happy because he had never felt such relief,
stood up and went to a poor village to seek for food and clothing.
“At that time, wanting to get his son back, the wealthy man employed
skillful means and secretly dispatched two attendants of wretched and humble appearance. He said to them:
Approach the impoverished fellow and gently tell him that there is a
place for him to work where he will be paid double. If he gives his
assent then bring him back to work. If he asks you what kind of work
there is for him to do, tell him that he will be employed to sweep dung
and that both of you will work with him.
“Then the two attendants immediately went in search of the impoverished son. When they found him they told him this. At that time he took his
pay and immediately went to work sweeping dung.
“The father, seeing his son, felt pity and wondered what to do. Then one
day while looking through the window he saw his son in the distance appearing emaciated and wretched, soiled with dung and dirt. The father took off
his necklaces, fine garments, and ornaments and put on torn, filthy clothes.
Covering himself with dirt and taking a dung sweeper in his right hand, he
made himself look fearsome. He said to his workers: ‘Work hard and don’t
be lazy!’
“Through this kind of skillful means he was able to approach his son.
He spoke to him further saying:
You! I want you to always work here. Don’t go anywhere else and I
will pay you more. There will be no difficulty in getting the things you
need, like utensils, rice, noodles, salt, and vinegar. I also have an old
servant. If you need him I’ll give him to you. Be at ease! I am just like
your father, so don’t worry about anything! Why am I doing this?
82Chapter IV
Because I am old and you are still young. Whenever you work you are
never lazy or sullen and never complain. I never see in you the bad
qualities the other workers have. From now on you will be just like
my own son.
“Then the wealthy man immediately addressed him as his child. At that
time, even though the impoverished son rejoiced at being treated this way,
he nevertheless still considered himself a humble employee. For this reason
his father let him continue to sweep dung for twenty years. At the end of this
period of time each had come to trust the other. Yet even though the son had
free access to his father’s house, he still lived in the same place as before.
“O Bhagavat! One day the wealthy man became ill and knew he was
going to die before long. He said to the impoverished son:
This is what I have been thinking and I want you to understand my intentions: I now have plenty of gold, silver, and precious treasures filling
my storehouses. Get to know exactly how much is being taken in and
out of them. Why do I want you to do this? Because you and I are one
and the same. Take good care of our fortune and don’t let it be lost!
“Then the impoverished son obeyed his instructions. Although he learned
everything about the gold, silver, precious treasure, and the storehouses, he
never wanted to take even the least amount. Nevertheless he still lived in
the same place as before and was still not able to get rid of his feeling of
inferiority.
“After a short time had passed the father knew that his son’s mind had
become composed, that his will had increased, and that he was ashamed of
his former feelings. When the father was just on the verge of death he ordered
his son to meet the king, ministers, k?atriyas, householders, and relatives,
who had already assembled there. The father then declared:
This is my son, my own progeny. When we were in a certain city he
left me and fled. He wandered around for more than fifty years undergoing hardships. His original name is Such-and-such, and my name is
Such-and-such. Long ago when I was in that city I worried and searched
for him. At last and unexpectedly I met up with him. This is my true
son and I am, in truth, his father. All of the fortune I now possess
17bThe Lotus Sutra
belongs to my son. He already knows about our finances.
“O Bhagavat! At that time the impoverished son, hearing what his father
said, became extremely happy at having obtained such an unprecedented
experience. Then he thought:
I never even considered receiving this; nevertheless, this treasure house
has come into my possession, though unsought and unawaited.
“O Bhagavat! This very wealthy man is the Tathagata, and all of us are
the heirs of the Buddha. The Tathagata has always said that we are his children. Because of the triple sufferings, O Bhagavat, we experienced pain,
were confused, ignorant and attached to inferior teachings in life after life.
Today the Bhagavat has made us think about getting rid of the dung of fallacies regarding the reality of the world and that, in this respect, we diligently
strove to attain the nirvana only as one seeking a salary for a single day’s
labor. We had already attained it and were extremely happy and satisfied
with it. We said to ourselves:
Because we have made diligent efforts to comprehend the Buddha’s
teaching we have attained a great deal.
“But the Bhagavat had formerly perceived that we were attached to
desires and content with lowly aspirations. While letting us be so he did not
explain that we were to have a portion of the treasure house of the Tatha-
gata’s wisdom and insight. Through the power of skillful means the Bhagavat has taught the wisdom of the Tathagatas. Although we had attained nirvana from the Buddha as our salary for one day’s labor, we thought we had
attained much and did not seek the Mahayana.
“Furthermore, we have manifested and explained the wisdom of the
Tathagata for the bodhisattvas; but we ourselves had no aspirations regarding it.
“Why is this? The Buddha, knowing that we were content with lowly
aspirations, taught us according to what is appropriate through the power of
skillful means. But we did not know that we really were the heirs of the
Buddha.
“Now we fully know that the Bhagavat is unstinting in regard to the wisdom of the buddhas. What is the reason for this? We have actually been the
17cChapter IV
heirs of the Buddha from long ago, even though we only yearned for the
inferior teaching. If we had yearned for the superior teaching, then the Buddha
would have taught the teachings of the Mahayana to us. Yet, in this sutra he
has taught only the single vehicle.
“Now, in the past the Buddha reviled the sravakas—those who yearned
for the inferior teaching—in the presence of the bodhisattvas, but actually
the Buddha inspired them also with the Mahayana. That is why we say that
though we originally had no desire to seek the great treasure of the King of
the Dharma it has now come to us unsought and unawaited. We have all
attained what we should attain as the heirs of the Buddha.”
Thereupon Mahakasyapa, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
Today we have heard the Buddha’s words,
And we are joyful and ecstatic
At having attained such an unprecedented experience.
The Buddha has said
That the sravakas will be able to become buddhas.
The most magnificent jewels
Have been obtained without being sought or awaited.
Suppose there were a young and inexperienced child
Who left his father
And ran away to a distant country.
He wandered around for more than fifty years.
And his worried father looked for him everywhere.
The father, exhausted from searching for him,
Remained in a city
Where he had a house built
And enjoyed the desires of the five senses.
His family built up a vast wealth of much gold, silver,
Mother-of-pearl, agate, pearls, lapis lazuli,
Elephants, horses, cows, sheep, floats, carriages,
Peasants, servants, and other employees.
He earned interest through loans and deposits
And had buyers and sellers
Throughout all the other regions.
85The Lotus Sutra
He was surrounded by thousands of
Myriads of ko?is of people,
Who held him in awe;
Always loved by the king,
And deeply respected by the subjects
And powerful families.
There were many people
Coming and going on different business.
He was thus extremely wealthy
And very powerful.
And yet as he grew older,
He increasingly worried about his son.
Day and night he thought:
Soon I will die.
My foolish son has abandoned me
For over fifty years.
What should I do with the
Various goods in my treasure houses?
At that time the impoverished son
Was going from town to town,
From one country to another,
Seeking food and clothing.
Sometimes he obtained them,
And sometimes he did not.
He was emaciated from hunger,
And his body was covered with scabies.
Through his wanderings,
He gradually reached the city
Where his father lived,
And, after having been employed
At one place after another,
Finally ended up at his father’s home.
At that time the wealthy man
Was sitting within the gate
18aChapter IV
On a lion seat, sheltered by
A huge jewel-covered canopy.
He was surrounded by his attendants
And guarded by his men.
Some were counting gold, silver, and jewels;
And some were settling the finances,
While others were keeping the accounts.
The impoverished son saw his father,
Who was extremely wealthy and dignified.
He wondered if this man were a king
Or someone of equal rank.
He became intimidated
And wondered why he had gone there.
He thought to himself:
If I stay here for long
I will be harassed and coerced into working.
Thinking this, he ran away
In search of a poor village
Where he could find employment.
At that time the wealthy man,
Who was sitting on the lion seat,
Saw his son in the distance.
Though he recognized him he told no one,
But sent his attendants
To pursue him and bring him back.
The impoverished son was terrified,
Cried out, and collapsed on the ground
In confusion, thinking:
Since this man has seized me
I shall certainly be killed.
In vain did I come here
In search of food and clothing.
The wealthy man knew that his son’s thoughts
87The Lotus Sutra
Were humble and foolish,
And that he would not believe what he said,
Nor believe that he was his father.
Then using skillful means,
He dispatched other men
With squint eyes, of small stature
And little dignity, saying to them:
Tell him:
We will employ you
To sweep dung, at double your wages.
When he heard this
The impoverished son was overjoyed
And returned to sweep dung and clean houses.
The wealthy man
Constantly watched his son
Through the window and thought
That his son was foolish
And willingly did menial things.
Then the wealthy man
Put on torn and filthy clothes,
And, holding a dung sweeper,
Went out to his son.
He approached his son
Through this skillful means
And said to him:
Work hard!
I have already increased your wages
And given you more balm for your feet,
Given you sufficient food
And warm, thick mats.
He further advised him, saying sternly:
You should work diligently.
88Chapter IV
Then he gently added:
I will treat you like my son.
The wealthy man, being wise,
Gradually gave him freedom of the house;
And, after twenty years had passed,
Let him become involved
In the family business.
He showed him the gold,
Silver, pearls, and crystal,
And made him learn about
All aspects of the finances.
Yet the impoverished son still lived
In a thatched hut outside the gate,
And considered himself poor, thinking
That these things were not his own.
The father knew that his son
Was gradually becoming more noble;
And, wanting to give him his fortune,
He assembled the king, ministers,
K?atriyas, householders, and relatives.
He informed this great assembly, saying:
This is my son.
He left me and stayed away
For fifty years.
Twenty years have already passed
Since I saw my son return here.
Long ago I lost my son in a certain city
And, after wandering around in search of him,
I ended up staying here.
I entrust to him all the houses and men
That I possess.
They are all at his disposal.
The son thought:
18bThe Lotus Sutra
Long ago I was poor and of lowly aspiration.
Now at my father’s place
I have obtained an immense fortune
Of such things as precious jewels and houses.
I am overjoyed at having obtained
Such an unprecedented experience!
The Buddha is also like this.
He knew that we yearned for the inferior teaching,
So he never taught us
That we should become buddhas.
Yet he did tell us that we had attained
The stage of noncorruption,
That we had achieved the inferior vehicle,
And that we were the disciples of the sravaka vehicle.
The Buddha told us to teach that
Those who practiced the highest path
Would be able to become buddhas.
Accepting the Buddha’s teaching,
We explained the highest path
For the great bodhisattvas,
Using various explanations and illustrations,
And many figures of speech.
The heirs of the Buddha
Heard the teachings from us,
Contemplated day and night,
And practiced diligently.
The buddhas instantly made their predictions saying:
You will all be able to become buddhas in the future.
We have explained the essence
Of the treasured teaching of the buddhas
Only for the sake of the bodhisattvas,
But did not expound it for ourselves.
Just as the impoverished son
Who, after approaching his father,
90Chapter IV
Learned of various things
Yet did not want them,
So, although we explained the treasure house
Of the teaching of the buddhas,
We never aspired to it.
We thought that we had ourselves attained nirvana
And considered this enough.
We understood only this
And did not think there was anything else.
Even if we heard
About the pure buddha lands
And leading and inspiring sentient beings,
We never rejoiced in it.
Why is this?
Because although we thought thus:
Every existence is quiescent,
Neither produced nor extinguished,
Neither large nor small,
Incorrupted and unconditioned,
We felt no eagerness.
For days and nights we neither craved for
Nor were attached to the wisdom of the buddhas,
Neither did we aspire to it.
Furthermore, we ourselves thought,
With regard to the Dharma itself,
That this was the ultimate goal.
After practicing the teaching
Of emptiness day and night,
We were able to shake off
The suffering of the triple world,
And, bearing our last bodies,
Abided in the nirvana with residue.
We were led and inspired by the buddhas
So that our attainment of the path was not in vain;
18cThe Lotus Sutra
And we have already been able
To pass on the benefits
We received from the Buddha.
Although we have expounded
The teaching of the bodhisattvas
To the heirs of the Buddha
To seek the buddha path,
We never longed for this teaching.
Because he knew our minds
The Leader turned away from us.
At first he did not arouse our zeal
With the explanation that there exists
Real profit in the teaching.
Just as the wealthy man,
Who, knowing that his son was of lowly aspiration,
Broadened his son’s mind using
The power of skillful means,
And only then entrusted his entire fortune to him.
The Buddha is also exactly like this.
He has manifested marvelous things
But perceiving that we were content
With lowly aspirations.
He brought control to our minds using
The power of skillful means,
And only then taught us the great wisdom.
Thus today we have obtained
An unprecedented experience.
The fact that we have now spontaneously obtained
What we had not longed for
Is just like the impoverished son
Who obtained innumerable jewels.
O Bhagavat!
We have now obtained the path and its fruit
And have obtained pure sight
Into the incorruptible Dharma.
92Chapter IV
For a long while we have maintained
The pure conduct of the Buddha;
Today for the first time
We have obtained the results.
For a long time we have practiced
The pure path of discipline and integrity
Based on the teaching of the Dharma King,
And now we have attained
The supreme fruit of noncorruption.
We are now real sravakas
And cause everyone to hear the words “buddha path.”
We are now real arhats and shall be revered
Among the devas, humans, maras, and Brahmas
In all the worlds.
The Bhagavat, the Great Benefactor,
Benefits us with marvelous things
By his inspiration and compassion.
Who can repay him for it
Even in immeasurable ko?is of kalpas!
Even if one were to serve him
With one’s hands and feet,
Bow one’s head in reverence,
And give all kinds of offerings,
One could not repay him.
Even if one were to bear him
On one’s head and shoulders
Out of deep respect, for as many kalpas
As there are sands in the Ganges River,
One could not repay him.
Or even if one were to honor him
With delicious food,
Uncountable jeweled garments,
Beddings, various medicines,
Famed sandalwood from Mount Oxhead,
And various precious jewels;
93The Lotus Sutra
Or by building temples,
Spreading jeweled clothing and other such things
For as many kalpas as there are sands in the Ganges River,
One could not repay him.
The buddhas have marvelous, immeasurable,
Limitless, inconceivable great transcendent powers.
They are the Kings of the Dharma.
Without depravities and unconditioned,
They are patient in all matters,
For the sake of the humble ones.
They teach the common people,
Who are attached to tangible things,
According to what is appropriate to them.
All of the buddhas having attained
Complete mastery over the Dharma,
Perceive the various desires and intentions
Of sentient beings and explain the teachings
With innumerable illustrations,
According to what is appropriate to them.
Judging from the roots of good merit
That sentient beings have planted in former lives,
The buddhas perceive who are mature
And who are not.
Considering this in various ways
And understanding the distinctions completely,
The buddhas teach the single path,
Explaining it as three
In accordance with what is appropriate.
19a95
Chapter V
Herbs
Thereupon the Bhagavat addressed Mahakasyapa and other great disciples
saying: “Splendid! Splendid! O Kasyapa! You have skillfully explained the
real merit of the Tathagata. It is exactly as you have said. The Tathagata has
immeasurable, unlimited, and incalculable merits. Thus even in a period of
immeasurable ko?is of kalpas you will never fully be able to explain all of
his merits.
“O Kasyapa! You should know that the Tathagata is the king of all the
teaching. What he teaches is never false. He explains all the teaching using
his wisdom and skillful means and what he teaches leads everyone to the
stage of omniscience.
“The Tathagata perceives the goal of all teachings and knows the underlying mental disposition of all sentient beings, perceiving all with no obstructions. He completely understands all teachings and displays omniscience to
all sentient beings.
“O Kasyapa! Suppose in the great manifold cosmos there are mountains,
rivers, valleys, and plains where many kinds of grasses, trees, shrubs, and
herbs of different names and colors grow. Dense clouds thoroughly cover
this great manifold cosmos and rain falls at the same time everywhere, moistening the small, medium, and large roots, stems, branches, and leaves of all
the grasses, trees, shrubs, and herbs.
“The sizes of all the trees depend on whether their capacities are superior, mediocre, or inferior; and the rain falling from the same cloud makes
them grow according to the nature of their various seeds. Flowers blossom
in the same place and fruit ripens in the same place moistened by the same
rain, yet there are differences among these grasses and trees.
“O Kasyapa! You should know that the Tathagata is exactly like this. He
appears in this world like a great overspreading cloud. His great voice resounds
over the devas, humans, and asuras in the world, just as the great cloud thoroughly covers the great manifold cosmos. He declares to the assembly:
19bThe Lotus Sutra
I am the Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower of the World, Unsurpassed,
Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat. I set free those who have not been freed. I enlighten those who
have not been enlightened and bring calm to those who have not been
calmed. I cause those to obtain nirvana who have not yet obtained it.
I am the one who knows the present and future worlds exactly as they
are. I am the All-Knower, the All-Seer, the Knower of the Path, the
One who discloses the path and explains it. All of you devas, humans,
and asuras! Come and listen to my teachings.
“At that time innumerable thousands of myriads of ko?is of sentient
beings approach the Buddha and listen to his teaching. Then the Tathagata,
perceiving the faculties of sentient beings—whether they are sharp or dull,
diligent or idle—explains the teachings according to their capacities in a
variety of immeasurable ways, gladdening and benefiting them all.
“Having heard his teaching, all of these beings are at peace in this world
and are born into a good existence in the future. Through this they will receive
peace of mind and be able to hear the teaching. Having already heard the
teaching they will become free from obstructions and be able to gradually
enter the path to the Dharma according to their capacities.
“Just like the great cloud that rains upon all the grasses, trees, shrubs,
and herbs, whose seeds are watered and which grow according to their capacities, the Tathagata teaches the Dharma of one aspect and character; that is
to say, the character of liberation, dispassion, and cessation which ultimately
leads to omniscience.
“Those sentient beings who hear, hold, and recite the teachings of the
Tathagata and practice it accordingly will nevertheless not perceive the merit
that they have obtained.
“Why is this? Only the Tathagata knows the seed, character, disposition, and capacity of sentient beings. Only he knows what they contemplate,
think, and practice; how they contemplate, think, and practice; what teachings they contemplate, think, and practice; and what teaching they obtain
through what teaching. Only the Tathagata exactly perceives and knows
without obstructions the various states in which sentient beings reside.
19cChapter V
“It is just like the grasses, trees, shrubs, and herbs that do not know their
own natures, whether they are superior, mediocre, or inferior. Yet the Tatha-
gata knows the teachings of one aspect and character, the character of liberation, dispassion, cessation, complete nirvana, and eternal tranquility which
ultimately leads to emptiness.
“The Buddha knows this and perceives the aspirations of sentient beings.
For this reason, in order to protect them, he does not immediately teach
omniscience.
“O Kasyapa! It is a rare thing that all of you know that the Tathagata
teaches according to your capacities and that you believe and accept it.
“Why is this? Because the Dharma taught by all the Buddha Bhagavats,
according to what is appropriate to sentient beings, is difficult to understand
and difficult to know.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
The King of the Dharma,
The destroyer of delusive existence,
Appears in the world
And keeping in mind the aspirations of sentient beings
Teaches the Dharma in various ways
According to the wishes of sentient beings.
The Tathagata is greatly distinguished,
And his wisdom is profound.
He has been silent for a long time
And intentionally has not taught the essential in haste.
Those who are wise
Will be well convinced when they hear it;
Those who are not wise will have doubts
And remain confused for a long time.
That is why, O Kasyapa, the Tathagata teaches
According to the capacities of sentient beings,
And enables them to attain the correct perspective
By using various illustrations.
O Kasyapa, you should knowThe Lotus Sutra
That it is as if a great cloud
Arises in the world
And covers everything.
This beneficent cloud contains moisture
And bright lightning flashes from it.
The sound of its thunder shakes the earth afar
And gladdens the people.
It conceals the sun
And cools the earth.
The spreading cloud hangs so low,
As if it could be touched.
Everywhere, equal, and immeasurable
The rain pours down and moistens the earth.
Grasses, herbs, large and small trees,
All kinds of crops, seedlings, sugarcane, and grapes
Growing in the depths of the mountains,
In rivers and in precipitous valleys,
Are all watered and completely nourished by the rain.
The dry earth is moistened everywhere
And the herbs and trees grow up thickly.
Out of this cloud the same rain
Waters these grasses, trees, and shrubs
Each according to their capacities.
All the trees, small, medium, or large
Are able to grow in accordance with their capacities.
The luster and colors of the roots, stems,
Branches, leaves, and flowers
Are all freshened by the same rain.
Each of these, although receiving the same moisture,
Reaches a greater or lesser size
In accordance with their different
Dispositions, characteristics, and natures.
The Buddha is exactly like this.
He appears in the world
As a great cloud
20aChapter V
Which covers everything universally.
Once appearing in this world
He illuminates and explains
The essence of the teachings
For the sake of sentient beings.
The Great Seer, the Bhagavat, expounds this
To the assembly of all the devas and humans.
I am the Tathagata, the Best of Humans.
I appear in the world to nourish sentient beings
Just as the great cloud
Moistens all the withered trees.
I cause everyone to be rid of suffering
And attain ease of heart,
Worldly happiness, and the joy of nirvana.
So, devas and humans, listen carefully!
Come, all of you,
And look at the Highest One!
I am the Bhagavat.
No one is equal to me.
I appear in this world
To bring peace of mind to sentient beings
And to teach the Dharma of immortality
To the great assembly.
This Dharma has a single flavor
Of liberation and nirvana.
I expound its meaning with the same subtle voice,
Always making the Mahayana
The subject of my illustrations.
I see everywhere, and regard all as equal.
I have no feelings of like or dislike;
For me there is no this or that.
Nor do I have either love or hate.
I have no attachments and make no distinctions,
And so always teach the Dharma equally to all;
And teach the same thing to one personThe Lotus Sutra
As I teach to everyone else.
I always teach the Dharma and nothing else.
Going or coming, sitting or standing,
I never tire of satisfying the world,
Just like the rain that gives nourishment universally.
I tirelessly pour down the rain of the Dharma
Equally on those who are noble or humble,
Superior or inferior, who keep or break the precepts,
Who have good or bad conduct, right or wrong views,
Sharp or dull faculties.
According to their power to understand,
All sentient beings who hear my teaching
Dwell in various stages.
Those living among humans,
Devas, noble emperors, Sakra, and Brahma kings
Are like the small herbs.
Those who know the incorruptible Dharma,
Who are able to attain nirvana,
Have the six transcendent powers, and
Have attained the three sciences.
Those who live alone in mountain forests
Always practicing meditation, and
Who attain the enlightenment of the pratyekabuddhas
Are like the medium-sized herbs.
Those who seek the stage
Of the Bhagavat, thinking that
They will become buddhas,
And practice persistence and meditation,
Are like the large herbs.
The heirs of the buddhas
Who concentrate on the path of the Buddha,
Who always cultivate compassion within themselves
And know definitely without a doubt
That they will become buddhas,
Are like the small trees.
100Chapter V
Those who are comfortable with transcendent powers,
Who turn the irreversible wheel [of the Dharma]
And save innumerable hundreds
Of thousands of ko?is of sentient beings,
Are the bodhisattvas
Who are like the large trees.
The Buddha’s equal teaching
Is like the rain of one flavor.
The sentient beings accept it
According to their different capacities,
Just as the grasses and trees
Each differently absorb the rain.
The Buddha reveals the single teaching
With illustrations, using skillful means
And explains it with various explanations,
And yet it is just a drop in the ocean
Compared to the Buddha’s wisdom.
I pour down the rain of the Dharma,
Fulfilling the world,
And the sentient beings
Practice the Dharma of one flavor
According to their capacities.
Just as the shrubs, herbs, and trees
Flourish in accordance with their capacities,
Reaching either a greater or lesser size,
The teaching of the buddhas
Is always of one flavor
And fulfills the entire world.
Anyone who practices it little by little
Obtains the fruit of the path.
The sravakas and pratyekabuddhas
Living in mountain forests,
Who, in their last bodies,
Hear the Dharma and attain its fruit,
Are just like the flourishing herbs.
20bThe Lotus Sutra
The bodhisattvas who are firm in wisdom,
Who completely understand the triple world,
And seek the highest vehicle,
Are just like the flourishing small trees.
Those who abide in meditation,
Attain transcendent powers,
Listen to the teaching regarding the emptiness
Of every existence with great joy,
And save sentient beings
By emitting innumerable rays of light,
Are just like the flourishing large trees.
In this way, O Kasyapa,
The Dharma that the Buddha teaches
Is just like the great cloud that enriches human flowers
With the rain of one flavor,
So that each attains its fruits.
O Kasyapa!
You should know that I reveal the buddha path
Using various explanations and illustrations
And that this is my skillful means.
All of the buddhas are just like this.
I will now teach the highest truth for your sake:
There are no sravakas who attain nirvana.
What you practice is the bodhisattva path;
And if you practice step by step,
You will all become buddhas.
102Chapter VI
Prediction
At that time, after the Bhagavat had spoken these verses, he addressed the
great assembly, proclaiming: “This disciple of mine, Mahakasyapa, in the
future will be able to meet three hundred myriads of ko?is of Buddha Bhagavats to whom he will pay homage, respect, veneration, and praise; and he
will extensively expound the immeasurable great teachings of these buddhas.
In his last body he will become a buddha called Rasmiprabhasa, a Tatha-
gata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct,
Well-Departed, Knower of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans,
Teacher of Devas and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat. “His world will be called
Avabhasaprapta in the kalpa called Mahavyuha. The lifespan of this buddha
will be twelve intermediate kalpas. The True Dharma will last in the world
for twenty intermediate kalpas and the Semblance Dharma will also last for
twenty intermediate kalpas.
“His world will be adorned and there will be no dirt, shards, thorns,
excrement, or other impurities. The earth will be level without irregularities,
hollows, or hills. The earth will be made of lapis lazuli with jeweled trees in
rows. Golden cords will line the borders of these roads, which will be scattered with precious flowers, and everywhere will be pure.
“In his world there will be immeasurable thousands of ko?is of bodhisattvas as well as innumerable sravakas. All malice will be far removed; and
even though Mara and his minions will be there, they will all protect the
Buddha-Dharma.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to explain the meaning of this further, spoke these verses:
I tell you, O monks,
That I see with the buddha-eye
That Kasyapa in the future
Will become a buddha
20cThe Lotus Sutra
After innumerable kalpas have passed.
In the future he will meet and pay homage
To three hundred myriads of ko?is of Buddha Bhagavats
And practice the pure path of discipline and integrity,
Seeking for the wisdom of the buddhas.
Having offered respect to the highest and best of humans
And having completely grasped the ultimate wisdom,
He will become a buddha while in his last body.
His land will be pure.
The earth will be made of lapis lazuli,
And many jeweled trees will be in rows
Along roads bordered with golden cords,
And those who see it will be gladdened.
The air will be always filled
With a pleasant fragrance,
And many beautiful flowers
Will be strewn about.
Various wonderful things
Will adorn this earth,
Which will be level
Without hills or hollows.
There will be an incalculable number
Of bodhisattvas there
Who will have the power of self-control,
Be versed in transcendent powers,
And who will preserve the sutras of the Mahayana
Taught by the buddhas.
The multitude of sravakas,
Bearing their last bodies, free from corruption,
Heirs of the Dharma King,
Will also be unreckonable;
Their number will be impossible to calculate
Even with the divine eye.
The lifespan of this buddha
Will be twelve intermediate kalpas.
104Chapter VI
The True Dharma will last in the world
For twenty intermediate kalpas.
And the Semblance Dharma will also last
For twenty intermediate kalpas.
Thus will things be with
The Bhagavat Rasmiprabhasa.
At that time Mahamaudgalyayana, Subhuti, and Mahakatyayana were
all charged with excitement, and with palms pressed together they attentively
gazed at the Bhagavat, never turning their eyes from him. They immediately
spoke these verses in unison:
O Bhagavat, Great Hero!
O King of the Dharma of the Sakyas!
Bestow the Buddha’s words upon us
Out of your compassion for us.
If, knowing the depths of our hearts,
You give us your predictions,
It will be like cooling our fevers
By sprinkling us with the Dharma of immortality.
It is as though someone coming
From a country suffering from famine
Were suddenly to find
A great king’s feast spread before him,
Yet is stricken with doubt
And does not venture to eat,
Until, being instructed by the king,
He dares at last to do so.
We are exactly like this.
We have been constantly thinking
About the faults of the inferior vehicle,
And so we had no knowledge of the way
To obtain the highest wisdom of the Buddha.
Although we hear the Buddha’s voice
Saying that we will become buddhas,
We still have doubt in our minds
21aThe Lotus Sutra
As if we dare not eat the meal.
If we receive the Buddha’s prediction
It will immediately put us at ease.
The Bhagavat, the Great Hero,
Always wants to put the world at ease;
And so we entreat you to bestow
Upon us your predictions,
As though to starving people
Waiting for permission to eat.
Then the Bhagavat, knowing what lay in the thoughts of the great disciples, addressed the monks saying: “This Subhuti in the future will meet,
respect, venerate, praise, and pay homage to three hundred myriads of ko?is
of nayutas of buddhas; and he will always practice the pure path of discipline and integrity, and complete the bodhisattva path. In his last body he
will become a buddha called Yasasketu, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely
Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower
of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas and Humans,
Buddha, Bhagavat.
“His land will be called Ratnasa?bhava in the kalpa called Ratnavabhasa. The land will be even and the earth will be made of crystal and adorned
with jeweled trees. It will be without pits, pebbles, thorns, or the filth of
excrement. The earth will be covered with precious flowers and will be everywhere pure.
“The people in this world will all live in wonderful towers with jeweled
terraces. The sravakas, the disciples there will be innumerable and limitless,
beyond calculation and metaphor, and there will also be innumerable thousands of myriads of ko?is of nayutas of bodhisattvas.
“The lifespan of this buddha will be twelve intermediate kalpas. The
True Dharma will last in the world for twenty intermediate kalpas and the
Semblance Dharma will also last for twenty intermediate kalpas. This Buddha
will always dwell in the air, teaching the Dharma for the multitude, and he
will save incalculable bodhisattvas and sravakas.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to explain the meaning of this further, spoke these verses:
106Chapter VI
O monks!
I shall now make something known to you.
You should attentively listen
To what I have to say.
My great disciple Subhuti
Will become a buddha called Yasasketu.
He will pay homage to innumerable
Myriads of ko?is of buddhas,
And, following the Buddha’s practice,
He will gradually come to complete the great path.
He will attain the thirty-two marks
In his last body,
And his form will be fine and beautiful
Just like a jeweled mountain.
His buddha world will be ultimately pure.
Of the sentient beings who see it
There will be none who do not rejoice.
There the Buddha will bring
Incalculable sentient beings to enlightenment.
In the midst of his Dharma
There will be many bodhisattvas
With keen faculties,
Who turn the irreversible wheel [of the Dharma].
This world will always
Be graced with bodhisattvas.
There will also be
Incalculable numbers of sravakas.
All of them will have perfected the three sciences,
And the six transcendent powers,
Will abide in the eight liberations,
And have great dignity and virtue.
The Buddha will expound the Dharma
And reveal immeasurable,
Unthinkable, transcendent powers.
All the devas and humans,
21bThe Lotus Sutra
As numerous as the sands of the Ganges River,
Will listen to the Buddha’s words
With palms pressed together.
The lifespan of this buddha
Will be twelve intermediate kalpas.
The True Dharma will last in the world
For twenty intermediate kalpas,
And the Semblance Dharma will also last
For twenty intermediate kalpas.
Thereupon the Bhagavat addressed the monks, saying: “I will now tell
you that this Mahakatyayana in the future will honor, respect, and pay homage to eight thousand ko?is of buddhas with offerings. After the parinirva?as
of these buddhas, he will erect stupas, each of which will be one thousand
yojanas in height and five hundred yojanas in both width and depth. These
stupas will all be constructed of the seven precious treasures—gold, silver,
lapis lazuli, mother-of-pearl, agate, pearls, and rubies. He will pay homage
to these stupas with many flowers and necklaces, fragrant ointments, scented
powders, burning incense, canopies, flags, and banners.
“After this he will also pay homage to two myriads of ko?is of buddhas
in exactly the same way and, having done so, he will perfect the bodhisattva
path and become a buddha called Jambunadabhasa, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed,
Knower of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas
and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat.
“His land will be level. The earth will be made of crystal and it will be
adorned with jeweled trees. The roads will be bordered with golden cords
and beautiful flowers will cover the earth. It will be pure everywhere and
those who see it will rejoice.
“There will be none of the four troubled states of being, namely the hells,
hungry ghosts, animals, and asuras. There will be many devas and humans,
and immeasurable myriads of ko?is of sravakas and bodhisattvas will grace
this world.
“The lifespan of this buddha will be twelve intermediate kalpas. The
True Dharma will last in the world for twenty intermediate kalpas and the
Semblance Dharma will also last for twenty intermediate kalpas.”
21cChapter VI
At that time the Bhagavat, wanting to explain the meaning of this further, spoke these verses:
O monks, listen carefully!
What I shall say
Is nothing but the truth.
This Katyayana
Will pay homage to the buddhas
With various wonderful offerings.
After the parinirva?as of those buddhas,
He will erect stupas constructed
Of the seven precious treasures
And offer respect to their relics
With flowers and incense.
In his last body
He will attain the wisdom of the Buddha
And will achieve complete enlightenment.
His world will be pure
And he will save incalculable
Myriads of ko?is of sentient beings.
He will be venerated in the ten directions.
There is nothing that surpasses
This Buddha’s ray of light,
So this buddha
Will be called Jambunadabhasa.
There will be innumerable, uncountable
Bodhisattvas and sravakas gracing this world,
Who have shaken free from every state of being.
Thereupon the Bhagavat again addressed the assembly saying: “I will
now tell you that this Mahamaudgalyayana will respect, venerate, and pay
homage to eight thousand buddhas with various offerings; and after the
parinirva?as of these buddhas, he will erect stupas, each of which will be
one thousand yojanas in height and five hundred yojanas in both depth and
width. These stupas will be constructed with the seven precious treasures—
gold, silver, lapis lazuli, mother-of-pearl, agate, pearls, and rubies. He willThe Lotus Sutra
offer them various flowers, necklaces, fragrant ointments, scented powders,
burning incense, canopies, flags, and banners.
“After this he will pay homage to two hundred myriads of ko?is of buddhas
in exactly the same way, and will become a buddha called Tamalapatracandanagandha, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer
of Humans, Teacher of Devas and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat.
“His world will be called Mano’bhirama in the kalpa called Ratiprapur?a.
The land will be level. The earth will be made of crystal, adorned with jeweled trees, and strewn with flowers of pearls. It will be pure everywhere and
those who see it will rejoice. There will be many devas and humans, innumerable bodhisattvas, and sravakas.
“The lifespan of this buddha will be twenty-four intermediate kalpas.
The True Dharma will last in this world for forty intermediate kalpas and
the Semblance Dharma will also last for forty intermediate kalpas.”
Then the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on this meaning, spoke these
verses:
This disciple of mine, Mahamaudgalyayana,
Having abandoned this body,
Will meet eight thousand and then two hundred
Myriads of ko?is of Buddha Bhagavats.
For the sake of the buddha path
He will pay them homage and respect them,
And always practice holy conduct (brahmacarya)
Of discipline and integrity
In the presence of these buddhas.
He will uphold the Buddha-Dharma
For immeasurable kalpas.
After the parinirva?as of these buddhas
He will erect stupas
Constructed with the seven precious treasures
On which golden banners
Will be long displayed.
He will pay homage to
These stupas of the buddhas
22aChapter VI
With flowers, incense, and music.
After having mastered
The bodhisattva path step by step,
In a land called Mano’bhirama,
He will become a buddha
Called Tamalapatracandanagandha.
The lifespan of this buddha
Will be twenty-four intermediate kalpas.
He will always expound the buddha path
For the sake of devas and humans.
There will be countless sravakas,
As numerous as the sands of the Ganges River,
Who will have perfected the three sciences,
And six transcendent powers,
And have great dignity and virtue.
There will be innumerable bodhisattvas,
Resolute and persevering, who will never turn away
From the wisdom of the buddhas.
After the parinirva?a of this buddha
The True Dharma will last
For forty intermediate kalpas,
And the Semblance Dharma
Will also be like this.
All of my disciples,
Five hundred in number,
Who are endowed with dignity and virtue,
Will also receive my prediction.
In the future they will all become buddhas.
I will now explain the relationships
That you and I have formed in past lives.
All of you, listen carefully!
111Chapter VII
The Apparitional City
The Buddha addressed the monks, saying: “Once upon a time, immeasurable, limitless, inconceivable, incalculable kalpas ago, there was a buddha
called Mahabhijñajñanabhibhu Tathagata, an Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower of the
World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas and Humans,
Buddha, Bhagavat. His land was called Susa?bhava in the kalpa called
Maharupa.
“O monks, it has been an extremely long time since this buddha entered
nirvana. Suppose there were a man who ground the earth of the entire great
manifold cosmos into powdered ink, and he were to then pass through a thousand worlds to the east, where he let fall a single particle of ink, the size of
a speck of dust.
“After passing through another thousand worlds, he let fall another particle; and he continued in this way until he had completely used all the ink.
“What do you think about this? Do you think that a mathematician or a
mathematician’s pupil would be able to count those worlds to the last particle or not?”
“O Bhagavat! No, they could not.”
“O monks! Suppose that all the worlds this man passed through, whether
letting fall a particle or not, were all ground into dust, and one speck of this
dust were equal to one kalpa. The time since the parinirva?a of this buddha
surpasses this number by immeasurable, limitless, incalculable hundreds of
thousands of myriads of ko?is of kalpas; and through the power of the Tatha-
gata’s wisdom and insight, I can see his distant past, as if it were today.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
I recall that in the past,
Immeasurable kalpas ago,
22bThe Lotus Sutra
There was a buddha, the most honored among two-legged beings,
Called Mahabhijñajñanabhibhu.
Suppose there was a man
Who vigorously ground up in its entirety
The earth of the great manifold cosmos
And turned it all to powdered ink.
After passing through one thousand worlds,
He let fall one particle of ink;
And in this way
He continued to let fall particles
Until he had used up all the ink.
If all these worlds,
Those where he let fall a particle
And those where he did not,
Were to be ground into specks of dust,
And one speck of dust were equal to a single kalpa,
Their number would be surpassed
By the number of kalpas
That have passed since that buddha’s parinirva?a,
So incalculable has this number of kalpas been.
With the Tathagata’s unobstructed wisdom,
I know of these bodhisattvas and sravakas
And the parinirva?a of this buddha;
It is as if I see his parinirva?a today.
O monks, you should know
That with the knowledge of the Buddha,
Which is pure and subtle,
Incorrupted and without obstructions,
I perceive what happened immeasurable kalpas ago.
The Buddha addressed the monks, saying: “The lifespan of this buddha
Mahabhijñajñanabhibhu was five hundred and forty myriads of ko?is of nayutas of kalpas. When that buddha was seated on the terrace of enlightenment
after having defeated Mara’s army, he tried to obtain highest, complete
enlightenment, yet the Dharma of the buddhas did not appear to him. In this
way, even after having sat cross-legged for one to ten intermediate kalpas,
114Chapter VII
undisturbed in body and mind, the Dharma of the buddhas still did not appear
to him.
“At that time a group of thirty-three devas first prepared for that buddha
a lion seat one yojana in height under the bodhi tree, for this buddha was to
attain highest, complete enlightenment on that seat. As soon as the Buddha
sat on this seat, all the Brahmas rained down various heavenly flowers for a
hundred yojanas around; periodically a fragrant breeze would blow away
the withered flowers and they would rain down fresh ones.
“In this way they unceasingly paid homage to the Buddha for a full ten
intermediate kalpas, raining down these flowers continuously until his
parinirva?a. The devas of the four quarters constantly struck heavenly drums
to honor the Buddha, and in the same way all the other devas made divine
music for a full ten intermediate kalpas until his parinirva?a.
“O monks! The Dharma of the buddhas appeared to the Buddha Maha-
bhijñajñanabhibhu after ten intermediate kalpas had passed, and he attained
highest, complete enlightenment.
“This Buddha had had sixteen children before he renounced household
life. The eldest child was called Jñanakara. Each child had various kinds of
rare toys. After hearing about their father’s attainment of highest, complete
enlightenment, they all put aside their toys and set out for where the Buddha
was. Weeping sad tears, their mothers saw them off. Their grandfather, the
wheel-turning sage king, went with them, along with a hundred ministers
and hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of people.
“When they arrived at the terrace of enlightenment, they all wanted to
approach the Tathagata Mahabhijñajñanabhibhu, and pay homage and respect,
honor, and praise him. They came up to him and bowed until their foreheads
touched his feet, and then circled around him. Attentively, with palms pressed
together, they gazed at the Bhagavat and spoke these verses:
The Bhagavat of great, virtuous dignity,
In order to bring sentient beings to the path,
After immeasurable ko?is of kalpas
And perfecting all the vows,
Finally became a buddha.
How wonderful!
There is nothing more auspicious!
22cThe Lotus Sutra
The Bhagavat is truly extraordinary!
He sat tranquil for ten intermediate kalpas
With his body and limbs immobile.
His mind was always calm and never distracted.
He has attained ultimate, eternal tranquility,
And is firmly established
In the incorruptible Dharma.
Now seeing the Bhagavat,
Who has serenely attained the buddha path,
We receive benefit and celebrate
With great joy.
Sentient beings, ever suffering,
Are blind and without a teacher.
They are unaware of the path that leads
To the extinction of suffering,
Ignorant of the way to seek liberation.
From one blind state to the next,
Those in the troubled states of being daily increase
While the devas decrease.
They never hear the Buddha’s name.
Now the Buddha has attained the highest,
Serene, and incorruptible Dharma.
Thus we and the devas and humans,
Shall obtain the greatest benefit.
Therefore we all bow and pay homage
To the highest Lord.
“At that time the sixteen princes, having praised the Buddha in verse,
requested that the Bhagavat turn the wheel of the Dharma, saying:
O Bhagavat, teach the Dharma! Put all the devas and people at ease
and benefit them through your compassion!
“They spoke further in verse, saying:
O Hero of the World,
The One Who Has No Equal,
23aChapter VII
Who is adorned with a hundred merits,
And has attained the highest wisdom!
We entreat you to teach
For the sake of the world,
And bring us and all the other
Sentient beings to the path.
Illuminate and reveal this wisdom
So that we may attain it.
If we can become buddhas,
So can the other sentient beings.
The Bhagavat knows
The deep-seated intentions of sentient beings
And the paths they practice,
As well as the power of their wisdom.
May the Bhagavat, being wholly aware
Of their positive intentions,
Accumulated merits, and past deeds,
Turn the highest wheel of the Dharma.
The Buddha addressed the monks, saying: “When the Buddha Maha-
bhijñajñanabhibhu attained highest, complete enlightenment, five hundred
myriads of ko?is of buddha worlds in each of the ten directions quaked in six
ways. The dark places between the worlds, where the rays of the sun and
moon had been unable to penetrate, were brightly illuminated. The sentient
beings there were able to see each other and said:
How is it possible that sentient beings have suddenly appeared here?
“Moreover, those worlds from the heavenly palaces up to the palaces of
the Brahmas, also quaked in six ways. The great ray of light shone everywhere, filling the worlds with a radiance that surpassed the light of the devas.
“At that time the palaces of Brahmas in the five hundred myriads of ko?is
of worlds in the east were illuminated twice as brightly as usual. The great
Brahmas each thought:
The palaces are illuminated now as never before. What has caused this
phenomenon?The Lotus Sutra
“At that time all of the great Brahmas approached each other to discuss
this matter. In that assembly there was a great Brahma called Sarvasattvatratar who spoke to the assembly of Brahmas in verse, saying:
This illumination of our palaces
Has never occurred before!
Let us find out
The reason for this!
This great ray of light
Has illuminated the ten directions.
Has a deva of great merit been born,
Or has a buddha appeared in the world?
“Then the great Brahmas of the hundred myriads of ko?is of worlds went
toward the west with their palaces to enquire about this phenomenon, carrying heavenly flowers in their robes. They saw the Tathagata Mahabhijña-
jñanabhibhu on the terrace of enlightenment, sitting on the lion seat under
the bodhi tree. He was respectfully surrounded by humans and such nonhumans as devas, naga kings, gandharvas, ki?naras, and mahoragas. They
also saw the sixteen princes requesting the Buddha to turn the wheel of the
Dharma. Then the great Brahmas bowed until their foreheads touched the
Buddha’s feet and then circled around him one hundred thousand times.
They scattered heavenly flowers on the Buddha, and the flowers they scattered were piled as high as Mount Sumeru. They also paid homage to the
Buddha’s bodhi tree, which was ten yojanas in height. Having reverently
offered him flowers, they presented their palaces to the Buddha, saying:
Please accept the palaces we now offer you, and benefit us through
your compassion!
“Then the great Brahmas spoke these verses wholeheartedly and in unison before the Buddha:
The Bhagavat, who is truly extraordinary,
Is extremely difficult to meet.
He is endowed with immeasurable qualities
And seeks to protect all.
The Great Teacher of Devas and Humans
23bChapter VII
Feels compassion for the world
And causes all sentient beings
In the ten directions
To be universally benefited.
All of us, who have come from
Five hundreds of myriads of ko?is of worlds,
Have given up the pleasure of deep meditation
In order to pay homage to the Buddha.
To the Bhagavat we now present our palaces,
Which the merits of our previous lives
Have caused to be completely adorned.
Please accept them through your compassion!
“Thereupon, having praised the Buddha in verse, the great Brahmas each
said this:
O Bhagavat! We entreat you to turn the wheel of the Dharma, open
the path to nirvana, and guide sentient beings to it.
“Then the great Brahmas attentively spoke these verses in unison:
O Hero of the World, the most honored among two-legged
beings!
We entreat you to expound the Dharma
And bring the suffering beings to the path
Through the power of your great compassion.
“Then the Tathagata Mahabhijñajñanabhibhu silently consented.
“Furthermore, O monks, the great Brahmas in the five hundred myriads
of ko?is of worlds in the southeast saw their palaces illuminated with a ray
of light that had never occurred before. Joyful and ecstatic, they were struck
with wonder. They assembled to discuss this matter. At that time there was
a great Brahma called Adhimatrakaru?ika. He spoke to the assembly of Brahmas in verse saying:
What is the reason
That this phenomenon has appeared?The Lotus Sutra
Even since the olden times,
This illumination of all of our palaces
Is without precedent.
Has a deva of great merit been born,
Or has a buddha appeared in the world?
Since we have never seen such a phenomenon,
We should seek thoroughly for its source.
Even if we have to pass
Through thousands of myriads of ko?is of worlds,
We should seek together for the source of this light.
Possibly a buddha has appeared in the world
To save suffering sentient beings.
“Thereupon five hundred myriads of ko?is of great Brahmas went toward
the northwest with their palaces, carrying heavenly flowers in their robes, to
enquire about this phenomenon. They saw the Tathagata Mahabhijña-
jñanabhibhu on the terrace of enlightenment, sitting on the lion seat under
the bodhi tree. He was respectfully surrounded by humans and such nonhumans as devas, naga kings, gandharvas, ki?naras, and mahoragas. They
also saw the sixteen princes requesting the Buddha to turn the wheel of the
Dharma.
“Then all the Brahmas bowed until their foreheads touched the Buddha’s
feet and then circled around him one hundred thousand times. They scattered heavenly flowers on the Buddha, and the flowers they scattered were
piled up as high as Mount Sumeru. They also paid homage to the Buddha’s
bodhi tree. Having reverently offered the Buddha flowers, they presented
their palaces to him, saying:
Please accept the palaces we now offer you and benefit us through
your compassion!
“Then the great Brahmas spoke these verses wholeheartedly and in unison before the Buddha:
O Great Sage, Deva of Devas!
We now bow to the one
Whose voice is as beautiful as the kalavi?ka bird’s
23cChapter VII
And who has compassion for sentient beings.
The Bhagavat is truly extraordinary
And can only be seen once
In an extremely long time.
One hundred and eighty kalpas
Have passed away fruitlessly,
And no buddhas have appeared during this time.
The worlds have been filled
With people in the three troubled states of being,
And the devas have decreased.
The Buddha has now appeared in the world
To be the eyes of sentient beings.
He will be the refuge of the world
And will seek to protect all.
As the father of sentient beings,
He is the compassionate benefactor.
Because of our past merits,
We now have the good fortune to be able
To meet the Bhagavat!
“Thereupon, having praised the Buddha in verse, the great Brahmas said
this:
O Bhagavat! We entreat you to turn the wheel of the Dharma out of
your compassion for all and save sentient beings.
“Then the great Brahmas spoke these verses wholeheartedly and in unison:
O Great Sage! Make us very happy!
Turn the wheel of the Dharma,
Reveal the character of all dharmas,
Save the suffering beings!
If sentient beings hear this Dharma
They will attain the path and be born as devas.
The beings in the troubled states of being will decrease
While those who persevere in the good will increase.
24aThe Lotus Sutra
“Then the Tathagata Mahabhijñajñanabhibhu silently consented.
“Furthermore, O monks, the great Brahmas in the five hundreds of thousands of ko?is of lands in the south each saw their palaces illuminated as they
had never been before. Joyful and ecstatic, they were struck with wonder.
They immediately assembled to discuss this matter together, asking:
Why have our palaces been illuminated?
“At that time there was a great Brahma, called Sudharma. He spoke to
the assembly of Brahmas in verse saying:
Our palaces are illuminated
With brilliant light.
There must be a reason for this,
And we should seek its source.
We have not seen such a phenomenon
During the past hundreds of thousands of kalpas.
Has a deva of great merit been born,
Or has a buddha appeared in the world?
“Thereupon five hundred myriads of ko?is of great Brahmas went toward
the north with their palaces, to enquire about this phenomenon, carrying
heavenly flowers in their robes. They saw the Tathagata Mahabhijña-
jñanabhibhu on the terrace of enlightenment, sitting on the lion seat under
the bodhi tree. He was respectfully surrounded by humans and such nonhumans as devas, naga kings, gandharvas, ki?naras, and mahoragas. They
also saw the sixteen princes requesting the Buddha to turn the wheel of the
Dharma.
“Then all the great Brahmas bowed until their foreheads touched the
Buddha’s feet and then circled around him one hundred thousand times.
They scattered heavenly flowers on the Buddha, and the flowers they scattered piled up as high as Mount Sumeru. They also paid homage to the
Buddha’s bodhi tree. Having revered the Buddha with flowers, they offered
their palaces to him, saying:
Please accept the palaces we now offer you, and benefit us through
your compassion!
122Chapter VII
“Then the great Brahmas spoke these verses wholeheartedly and in unison before the Buddha:
O Destroyer of Afflictions!
It is extremely difficult to meet a Bhagavat.
We are now meeting the Buddha for the first time
Since one hundred and thirty kalpas have passed away.
Please satisfy sentient beings,
Who are suffering from hunger and thirst,
By pouring down the rain of the Dharma!
O One Possessed of Immeasurable Wisdom,
Whom we have never met before!
Today we have encountered
The one who appears as rarely
As the u?umbara flower blooms.
Our palaces are beautifully adorned
By this ray of light.
We entreat you to accept them
Out of your great compassion!
“Thereupon, having praised the Buddha in verse, the great Brahmas said
this:
O Bhagavat! We request that you turn the wheel of the Dharma, thus
causing the devamaras, Brahmas, srama?as, and brahmans to be at
ease and saving them all!
“Then the great Brahmas spoke these verses wholeheartedly and in unison:
We entreat you, O Best of Devas and Humans,
To turn the wheel of the highest Dharma,
Beat the drum of the great Dharma,
Blow the conch of the great Dharma,
Rain the rain of the great Dharma everywhere,
And save incalculable sentient beings!
We have all come to request
24bThe Lotus Sutra
That you expound it
With your profound voice!
“Then the Tathagata Mahabhijñajñanabhibhu silently consented.
“The very same thing happened in the worlds from the southwestern to
the lower regions, as well as those in other directions.
“Then all the great Brahmas in the five hundred myriads of ko?is of lands
in the upper region saw their palaces illuminated with a light that had never
existed before. Joyful and ecstatic, they were struck with wonder. They immediately assembled to discuss this matter together, asking:
Why have our palaces been illuminated?
“There was a great Brahma in that assembly called Sikhin. He spoke to
the assembly of Brahmas in verse, saying:
Why have all our palaces
Been brilliantly illuminated
With this light of virtuous dignity
And adorned in this unprecedented way?
We have never seen such a wonderful phenomenon!
Has a deva of great merit been born,
Or has a buddha appeared in the world?
“Thereupon five hundred myriads of ko?is of great Brahmas went into
the lower regions with their palaces to enquire about this phenomenon, carrying heavenly flowers in their robes. They saw the Tathagata Mahabhijña-
jñanabhibhu on the terrace of enlightenment sitting on the lion seat under
the bodhi tree. He was respectfully surrounded by humans and such nonhumans as devas, naga kings, gandharvas, ki?naras, and mahoragas. They
also saw the sixteen princes requesting the Buddha to turn the wheel of the
Dharma.
“Then all the great Brahmas bowed until their foreheads touched the
Buddha’s feet and then circumambulated him one hundred thousand times.
They scattered heavenly flowers on the Buddha, and the flowers they scattered were piled up as high as Mount Sumeru. They also paid homage to the
Buddha’s bodhi tree. Having reverently offered him flowers, they presented
their palaces to the Buddha saying:
124Chapter VII
Please accept the palaces we now offer you, and benefit us through
your compassion!
“Then all the great Brahmas spoke these verses wholeheartedly and in
unison before the Buddha:
How splendid it is to meet the buddhas,
The Great Sages who deliver the world,
Who diligently work to get sentient beings
Out of the hell of the triple world!
The Best of Devas and Humans,
Who has universal wisdom,
Out of compassion for everyone
Opens the gate to immortality
And extensively saves all.
Since olden times, immeasurable kalpas
Have passed away in vain
Without the presence of the Buddha.
In the time before the Bhagavat appears,
The ten directions are in constant darkness.
Those in the three troubled states of being increase
And the asuras also flourish.
The devas decrease all the more,
And when they die
Many of them fall into those troubled states.
Having never heard the teaching from the Buddha,
All of them always behave badly,
And their physical power and wisdom decreases.
Because of their erring deeds
They lose happiness or any notion of it.
Abiding in the teaching of false views
They know nothing of good conduct.
Deprived of the buddhas’ inspiration,
They always fall into the troubled states of being.
After a very long time, the Buddha has now
Appeared as the Eye of the World.
24cThe Lotus Sutra
It is out of compassion for sentient beings
That the Buddha appears in the world.
Transcending everything, the Buddha
Has attained complete enlightenment.
We are all extremely happy,
And all the other beings joyfully acclaim
This unprecedented experience.
All our palaces are beautifully adorned
By this ray of light.
We now offer them to the Bhagavat.
Please accept them out of your compassion!
By the universal transference of this merit,
May we and all other beings
Together attain the buddha path!
“Thereupon the five hundred myriads of ko?is of great Brahmas, having
praised the Buddha in verse, each spoke to him, saying:
O Bhagavat! We strongly entreat you to turn the wheel of the Dharma,
give ease to many, and enable them to attain the path.
“Then all the great Brahmas spoke these verses:
O Bhagavat! Turn the wheel of the Dharma,
Beat the drum of the Dharma of immortality,
Save the suffering sentient beings,
And reveal the path to nirvana!
We strongly entreat you to accept our request;
And out of your compassion
And with your wonderful voice,
Expound the Dharma
That you have perfected
Over immeasurable kalpas.
“And then the Tathagata Mahabhijñajñanabhibhu acceded to the request
made by all the great Brahmas from the ten directions and the sixteen princes.
He then immediately turned three times the Dharma wheel of twelve spokes
25aChapter VII
that no srama?as, brahmans, devamaras, Brahmas, or any other being in the
world could turn. He taught:
This is suffering. This is the origination of suffering. This is the cessation of suffering, and this is the path that leads to the cessation of
suffering. (i.e., the Four Noble Truths)
“He also extensively taught the Dharma of the twelve-linked chain of
dependent origination, saying:
Conditioned states are dependent on ignorance. Consciousness is
dependent on conditioned states. Name and form are dependent on
consciousness. The six sense fields are dependent on name and form.
Contact is dependent on the six sense fields. Feelings are dependent
on contact. Craving is dependent on feelings. Grasping is dependent
on craving. Becoming is dependent on grasping. Birth is dependent
on becoming. And old age, illness, death, anxiety, sorrow, suffering,
and distress are dependent on birth.
When ignorance ceases, then conditioned states cease. When conditioned states cease, then consciousness ceases. When consciousness
ceases, then name and form cease. When name and form cease, then
the six sense fields cease. When the six sense fields cease, then contact ceases. When contact ceases, then feelings cease. When feelings
cease, then craving ceases. When craving ceases, then grasping ceases.
When grasping ceases, then becoming ceases. When becoming ceases,
then birth ceases. When birth ceases, then old age, illness, death, anxiety, sorrow, suffering, and distress cease.
“When the Buddha explained this Dharma to the great assembly of the
devas and humans, at that time six hundred myriads of ko?is of nayutas of
people, because they were not attached to any existent thing, became free of
all corruption. All of them perfected profound meditations, the three sciences,
the six transcendent powers, and were endowed with the eight liberations.
“When he taught the Dharma for the second, third, and fourth time, thousands of myriads of ko?is of nayutas of sentient beings, equal to the sands
of the Ganges River, who were not attached to any existent thing, became
free of all corruption. Innumerable, immeasurable, incalculable sravakas
followed in their turn.
127The Lotus Sutra
“At that time the sixteen princes who were still young renounced household life and became srama?eras. All their faculties were sharp, and their
wisdom was penetrating. They had paid homage to hundreds of thousands
of myriads of ko?is of buddhas, practiced the pure path of discipline and
integrity, and sought highest, complete enlightenment.
“They all spoke to the Buddha, saying:
O Bhagavat! All of these immeasurable thousands of myriads of ko?is
of sravakas of great merit have all attained perfection. O Bhagavat!
You should also expound the teaching of highest, complete enlightenment to us! Hearing it, we shall all practice it. O Bhagavat! We aspire
for the wisdom and insight of the Tathagata. The Buddha himself knows
what is deep in our minds.
“At that time eight myriads of ko?is of people in the assembly who served
the noble emperor saw the sixteen princes renounce household life and
appealed to the emperor to allow their own renunciation. The emperor immediately gave his permission.
“Then the Buddha accepted the request of the srama?eras. After twenty
thousand kalpas had passed he taught to the fourfold assembly this Mahayana
sutra called the Lotus Sutra, the instruction for bodhisattvas and treasured
lore of the buddhas.
“After the Buddha taught this sutra, all the sixteen srama?eras preserved, recited, and understood it in order to achieve highest, complete enlightenment. When the Buddha taught this sutra, all the sixteen srama?eras, the
bodhisattvas, completely accepted it. There were also some among the sra-
vakas who believed it. But all the other thousands of myriads of ko?is of sentient beings became confused.
“The Buddha continuously taught this sutra for eight thousand kalpas
without stopping. After teaching this sutra, he immediately entered a quiet
place and abided in meditation for eighty-four thousand kalpas.
“At that time each of the sixteen srama?eras, the bodhisattvas, knowing that the Buddha had entered the quiet place and was abiding tranquilly
in meditation, ascended the Dharma seat and extensively taught and explained
the Lotus Sutra to the fourfold assembly for eighty-four thousand kalpas.
Each of them saved six hundred myriads of ko?is of nayutas of sentient beings
25bChapter VII
equal in number to the sands of the Ganges River. By revealing and teaching it, they gladdened these sentient beings and awoke in them the thought
of highest, complete enlightenment.
“Having arisen from samadhi after eighty-four thousand kalpas had
passed, the Buddha Mahabhijñajñanabhibhu approached the Dharma seat
and sat down with complete mindfulness. He addressed everyone in the great
assembly, saying:
These sixteen srama?eras, bodhisattvas, are extraordinary. All their
faculties are sharp and their wisdom is penetrating. In times past they
have paid homage to immeasurable thousands of myriads of ko?is of
buddhas and have constantly practiced the pure path of discipline and
integrity under them. They preserved the wisdom of the buddhas and
revealed it to sentient beings, causing them to enter into it. All of you
should approach and pay them homage again and again. Why is this?
If there are any sravakas, pratyekabuddhas, and bodhisattvas who
are able to believe and preserve the teaching in this sutra expounded
by these sixteen bodhisattvas and not disparage it, they will all attain
the wisdom of the Tathagata, highest, complete enlightenment.
The Buddha addressed the monks, saying: “These sixteen bodhisattvas
always willingly taught this Lotus Sutra. Each bodhisattva has inspired six
hundred myriads of ko?is of nayutas of sentient beings equal in number to
the sands of the Ganges River. In life after life, they remained with these
bodhisattvas and, hearing this teaching from them, they believed and understood. For this reason they were able to meet four myriads of ko?is of Buddha
Bhagavats during a period uninterrupted up to the present.
“O monks! I shall now tell you that these sixteen srama?eras, disciples
of that buddha Mahabhijñajñanabhibhu, have now attained highest, complete enlightenment and presently teach the Dharma in the lands of the ten
directions. There are immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads of
bodhisattvas and sravakas who have become their attendants.
“Two of these srama?eras have became buddhas in the east. One is
called Ak?obhya in the land called Abhirati and the other is called Meruku?a.
In the southeast there are two buddhas. One is called Si?hagho?a and the
other is called Si?hadhvaja. In the south there are two buddhas called
129The Lotus Sutra
Akasaprati??hita and Nityaparinirv?ta. There are also two buddhas in the
southwest. One is called Indradhvaja and the other is called Brahmadhvaja.
In the west there are two buddhas called Amitayus and Sarvalokadhatu-
padravodvegapratyuttir?a. There are two buddhas in the northwest. One is
called Tamalapatracandanagandhabhijña. The other is called Merukalpa. In
the north there are two buddhas. One is called Meghasvaradipa and the other
is called Meghasvararaja. In the northeast there is a buddha called Sarvalokabhayacchambhitatvavidhva?sanakara. And the sixteenth one is myself,
Buddha Sakyamuni, who in this saha world achieved highest, complete
enlightenment.
“O monks! When we were srama?eras, each of us inspired immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of sentient beings equal in
number to the sands of the Ganges River. Those sentient beings who heard
the teaching from me attained highest, complete enlightenment. There are
sentient beings who still abide in the stage of a sravaka and whom I will
inspire to attain highest, complete enlightenment. By means of this teaching, they will gradually enter the buddha path. Why is this?
“The wisdom of the Tathagatas is hard to believe and hard to understand. Those incalculable sentient beings equal in number to the sands of the
Ganges River who were inspired at that time were you, O monks, and those
disciples who will be sravakas in the future after my parinirva?a.
“After my parinirva?a there will be disciples who will not hear this
sutra and will neither know nor understand the bodhisattva practice; yet
through the merit they have acquired, the thought of extinction will awake
in them and they will enter parinirva?a.
“I will become a buddha in another land with a different name. Although
the idea of extinction has awoken in these disciples and they have entered
parinirva?a, in that land they will still seek the wisdom of the buddhas and
will then be able to hear this sutra. They can obtain parinirva?a only through
the buddha vehicle. There are no other vehicles except the one taught through
the skillful means of the Tathagatas.
“O monks! When the Tathagata realizes that the time of his parinirva?a
is approaching, knowing that the assembly is pure, firm in belief and understanding, has penetrated the teaching of emptiness, and has deeply entered
meditation, he will then gather the assembly of bodhisattvas and sravakas
25cChapter VII
together and teach this sutra to them. In this world there is no second vehicle through which one can attain parinirva?a; only through the single buddha
vehicle can one attain it.
“You should know, O monks, that the Tathagata through skillful means
deeply penetrates the dispositions of sentient beings. Knowing their inclination toward the inferior teachings and that they are deeply attached to the
desires of the five senses, he teaches nirvana for their sake. If they listen,
they will accept it.
“Suppose in a desolate, fearful place there were a dangerous road five
hundred yojanas long. There is a large group that wants to travel along this
road to reach a place where there is great treasure. They have a leader who is
wise and penetrating and who knows the passable and impassable parts of this
dangerous road very well. Although he wants to guide these people past the
danger, they become exhausted along the way. Addressing the leader they say:
We are extremely tired and frightened. We cannot go any further. We
are still far away from our destination, and we want to turn back.
“The leader, knowing many skillful means, thinks:
These people are to be pitied. How could they want to turn back and
abandon the great treasure?
“After thinking this the leader, through his skillful means, magically
creates a city three hundred yojanas away along the dangerous road. He
addresses the people, saying:
Do not be frightened. Do not turn back! You may now stay in this great
city and be at your leisure. If you enter this city, you can be comfortable and at ease. Once you are able to go on and reach the treasure site,
then you can depart once more.
“Then the exhausted people rejoice greatly and praise this unprecedented
experience, saying:
We are now free of this evil road and will be comfortable and at ease.
“Then they proceed to the apparitional city and enter it. They believe
that their hardships are over and feel at ease. Then the leader realizes that
26aThe Lotus Sutra
they are rested and their fatigue has gone. He immediately makes the apparitional city vanish and says to the people:
All of you, come along! The treasure site is near. I made that great
apparitional city only in order to let you rest.
“O monks! The Tathagata is exactly like this. Now for your sake he has
become a great leader who knows the long, dangerous, and evil road of birth,
death, and desire’s confusion. You should leave it and be saved.
“If sentient beings hear only about the single buddha vehicle they will
then want neither to see nor approach a buddha. They will think that the buddha
path is long and attainable only after enduring severe and protracted suffering. The Buddha, knowing their minds, knowing that they are weak-willed
and of lowly aspiration, teaches them the two nirvanas through skillful means
in order to let them rest halfway to the goal. If there are sentient beings who
abide in either of these two stages, the Tathagata immediately teaches:
What you have accomplished is not complete. The stage you abide in
is close to the wisdom of the buddhas. You should observe and consider that the nirvana you have obtained is not the true one. It is only
through the power of the Tathagata’s skillful means that the single
buddha vehicle is explained as three.
“The Buddha is just like that leader who conjured a great apparitional
city to let the people rest. Knowing that they were rested, he addressed them,
saying: “The treasure site is near. This city is not real. It is only my invention.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
The Buddha Mahabhijñajñanabhibhu sat
On the terrace of enlightenment for ten kalpas,
But still the Dharma of the buddhas
Did not appear to him,
And he did not attain the buddha path.
The devas, naga kings, asuras, and others
Constantly rained down heavenly flowers
In order to pay homage to that buddha.
132Chapter VII
The devas beat heavenly drums
And played various kinds of music.
The fragrant winds blew the withered flowers away
And then they rained down fresh, beautiful ones.
After ten intermediate kalpas had passed,
He then attained the buddha path;
And all the devas and humans
Became joyful and ecstatic.
The sixteen princes of that buddha,
Surrounded by thousands of
Myriads of ko?is of attendants,
Came to the place where the Buddha was.
Having bowed until their foreheads touched his feet,
They requested him to turn the wheel of the Dharma
Saying:
O Noble Lion!
Fill us and everyone else with the rain of the Dharma!
It is extremely difficult to meet a Bhagavat,
Since he appears only once in a very long time!
To get the attention of the beings,
The Buddha shook the entire world.
The palaces of the Brahmas in the five hundred
Myriads of ko?is of lands in the east
Were illuminated as never before.
All of the Brahmas, seeing this phenomenon,
Came to the place where the Buddha was.
They reverently scattered flowers
And offered him their palaces.
Requesting the Buddha
To turn the wheel of the Dharma,
They praised him in verse.
The Buddha knew that the right time
Had not yet arrived,
And although he had been asked,
26bThe Lotus Sutra
He sat in silence.
The other three directions, the four remaining quarters,
And the upper and lower regions were all like this.
All the Brahmas scattered flowers,
Offered their palaces, and requested the Buddha
To turn the wheel of the Dharma,
Saying:
It is extremely difficult to meet a Bhagavat.
We entreat you to open wide the gate to immortality
And turn the wheel of the highest Dharma
Through your great compassion!
The Bhagavat, having immeasurable wisdom,
Accepted their request
And expounded various teachings,
Such as the Four [Noble] Truths
And the twelve-linked chain of dependent origination, saying:
Beginning with ignorance
And ending with old age and death,
All these derive from birth.
You should know about such miseries!
When the Buddha expounded this teaching,
Six hundred myriads of ko?is of trillions of people
Attained the complete extinction of all suffering,
And became arhats.
At the time of the second teaching,
Thousands of myriads of people,
Equal in number to the sands of the Ganges River,
Unattached to any existent thing,
Also attained arhatship.
After that an incalculable number
Of beings attained the path.
Even if one were to count
For myriads of ko?is of kalpas,
26cChapter VII
One could not finish counting their number.
Then the sixteen princes renounced
Household life and became srama?eras.
They all asked the Buddha to expound
The teaching of the Mahayana, saying:
Let us and all of our attendants
Attain the buddha path!
We entreat you to let us obtain
The Bhagavat’s eye of wisdom, supreme in purity!
The Buddha, knowing the minds of his children
And their past conduct, taught the six perfections
And various transcendent powers
Through incalculably numerous explanations
And various illustrations.
Explaining the true teaching
And the path to be practiced by the bodhisattvas,
He taught this Lotus Sutra in verses
Equal in number to the sands of the Ganges River.
After the Buddha taught this sutra,
He entered meditation in a quiet place
And sat with complete concentration in the same spot
For eighty-four thousand kalpas.
Those srama?eras, knowing that the Buddha
Had not arisen from meditation,
Taught the highest wisdom of the buddhas
To immeasurable ko?is of beings.
Each sat on the Dharma seat
And explained this Mahayana sutra.
After the great parinirva?a of that buddha,
They propagated the Dharma and inspired others.
Each srama?era saved
Six hundred myriads of ko?is of sentient beings,
Equal in number to the sands of the Ganges River.
Those who heard the teaching
135The Lotus Sutra
After the Buddha’s parinirva?a
Were always born together with their teachers
In various other buddha lands.
These sixteen srama?eras
Completely cultivated the buddha path
And now, in the ten directions,
They have attained highest, complete enlightenment.
Then those who heard the Dharma
In the presence of each of these buddhas
And those who are in the sravaka stage
Will gradually be taught the buddha path.
I am one of the sixteen.
I have also taught you in the past.
Therefore through skillful means
I will now also lead you to the goal
Which is the wisdom of the buddhas.
Through these former causes and conditions,
I will now teach the Lotus Sutra
In order to let you enter the buddha path.
Do not be worried or frightened!
Suppose there were a dangerous road
In a deserted wasteland far away,
Where there are many harmful beasts.
There is neither water nor grass.
It is a fearful place for human beings.
Innumerable thousands of myriads of beings
Wish to pass along this dangerous way.
But that road is very long,
Some five hundred yojanas.
Then there is a leader,
Endowed with deep wisdom and knowledge,
Discerning and resolute,
Who saves the people from various calamities
When they meet with danger.
The people all get tired
27aChapter VII
And address the leader, saying:
We are all now totally exhausted.
We want to turn back from here!
The leader thinks:
These people are really to be pitied.
How could they possibly want to return
And lose the great treasure!
He immediately thinks of skillful means
And how he should now use his transcendent powers;
And he makes a great apparitional city
With houses adorned and surrounded
With gardens, moats, and ponds.
There are fortified gates and tall towers,
And it is full of men and women.
When the apparition is complete,
He immediately consoles the people, saying:
Do not be afraid!
When you enter the city,
You can each do as you please.
All the people enter the city.
They are very happy and feel at ease,
Thinking they have been saved.
When the leader knows they are rested,
He gathers them together and addresses them, saying:
You should now proceed,
For this is just an apparitional city!
Seeing that you were extremely fatigued
And that you wanted to turn back
After coming halfway,
I made this apparitional city through skillful means.
You should now strive
To reach the treasure site together.
25cThe Lotus Sutra
I am exactly like this.
I am the leader of all.
Perceiving that those seeking the way
Have become timid, have stopped halfway,
And are unable to walk to the end of the dangerous road
Of birth, death, and desire’s confusion,
I use skillful means and teach nirvana
So that they may rest, saying:
You have extinguished suffering,
And you have completed what must be done.
Knowing that they have reached nirvana
And attained arhatship, the Buddha immediately
Gathers the great assembly together
And teaches the True Dharma.
All the buddhas explain and teach
The three vehicles through skillful means.
Although there is only the single buddha vehicle,
They teach two in order to provide a place of rest.
For your benefit I now teach the truth:
What you have attained is not the ultimate goal.
You must call forth great efforts
In order to obtain the omniscience of a buddha.
If you attain omniscience
And the qualities of the Buddha,
Such things as the ten powers,
And become endowed with the thirty-two marks,
Then you will have attained the ultimate goal.
The buddhas, the Leaders, teach nirvana
In order to let beings rest in comfort.
When they know that they have rested,
They lead them to the wisdom of the buddhas.
27b139
Chapter VIII
The Five Hundred Disciples
Receive Their Predictions
At that time, Pur?a, the son of Maitraya?i, after hearing the Buddha teach
the Dharma according to what is appropriate to sentient beings through the
wisdom of skillful means and bestow the prediction of highest, complete
enlightenment on all the great disciples, and then hearing stories about past
causes and conditions and that all the buddhas have obtained perfect mastery of transcendent powers, obtained an unprecedented experience and
became pure in mind and joyful. He immediately rose from his seat, went
into the presence of the Buddha, bowed until his forehead touched the
Buddha’s feet, and then stood to one side gazing unwaveringly at the Buddha
and thought this:
The Bhagavat is truly marvelous. His actions are rare. He teaches the
Dharma according to the natural capacities of the beings in the world
through skillful means, wisdom, and insight. He leads sentient beings
away from their various attachments. We have no words to describe
the Buddha’s qualities. Only the Buddha, the Bhagavat, is able to know
our deep intentions and original vow.
Then the Buddha addressed the monks, saying: “Do you see Pur?a, the
son of Maitraya?i? I always praise him as the foremost among the teachers
of the Dharma. I also always praise his various qualities. He diligently maintains and propagates my teaching and is able to gladden and benefit the fourfold assembly. He interprets the True Dharma of the buddhas perfectly and
greatly benefits those who practice the pure path of discipline and integrity
together with him. With the exception of the Tathagata no one else explains
the doctrine more eloquently.
“You must not think that Pur?a is only now able to protect and propagate my teaching. He also protected and propagated the True Dharma of the
buddhas in the presence of ninety ko?is of buddhas in the past when he was
27c140
The Lotus Sutra
always the foremost among the teachers of the Dharma. Moreover he was
completely versed in the teaching of emptiness that the buddhas taught, and
attained the fourfold unobstructed wisdom. He has always been able to teach
the Dharma clearly and purely. He never had any doubts and was endowed
with the transcendent powers of the bodhisattvas.
“Throughout each life he always practiced the pure path of discipline
and integrity. The people who lived in the same buddha world all thought
he really was a sravaka, yet Pur?a benefited immeasurable hundreds of thousands of sentient beings through this skillful means and also led and inspired
immeasurable incalculable numbers of beings and caused them to attain highest, complete enlightenment. In order to purify the buddha land he always
did what the buddhas have done and led and inspired sentient beings.
“O monks! Pur?a also was able to become the foremost among the teachers of the Dharma under the past seven buddhas; and he is also the foremost
of those who preach the Dharma under me. He will also be the foremost
among the teachers of the Dharma under the future buddhas in this auspicious kalpa. He will protect and propagate the Buddha-Dharma; and also in
the future he will protect and propagate the Dharma of incalculable limitless buddhas. He will lead, inspire, and benefit incalculable sentient beings
and cause them to attain highest, complete enlightenment. In order to purify
the buddha lands he will always be diligent and persevering, leading and
inspiring sentient beings.
“He will gradually perfect the bodhisattva path and, after immeasurable incalculable kalpas, he will attain highest, complete enlightenment in
this land. He will be called Dharmaprabhasa, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely
Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower
of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas and Humans,
Buddha, Bhagavat. That Buddha’s land will consist of all the worlds in the
great manifold cosmos, equal in number to the sands of the Ganges River.
The earth will be made of the seven treasures and it will be level, just like
the palm of one’s hand. There will be no mountains, valleys, or hollow places.
This land will be filled with towers of the seven treasures. The heavenly
palaces will be in the sky close at hand, and the humans and devas will come
and go between them, so that they will be able to see each other. There will
be no troubled states of being nor any women. All the sentient beings will141
Chapter VIII
be born here spontaneously, without any sexual desires. They will attain
great transcendent powers, emit rays of light from their bodies, and fly freely
through the air.
“These beings will be firm in recollection, persevering, and wise. They
will all be of golden hue and adorned with the thirty-two marks. The sentient beings in that land will always eat two meals: one being the meal of
delight in the Dharma, and the other the meal of pleasure in meditation.
“There will be immeasurable incalculable thousands of myriads of ko?is
of nayutas of bodhisattvas who have attained great transcendent powers and
the fourfold unobstructed wisdom. They will be able skillfully to lead and
inspire sentient beings. The number of sravakas there will be impossible to
calculate. They will all perfect the six transcendent powers, the three sciences, and the eight liberations.
“Such will be the immeasurable merits of this buddha’s land, being perfect in adornment. The kalpa will be called Ratnavabhasa and his land will
be called Suvisuddha. This buddha’s lifespan will last for immeasurable
incalculable kalpas, and the Dharma will abide for a very long time. After
the parinirva?a of that buddha, stupas of the seven treasures will be erected
everywhere throughout the land.”
Then the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this further,
spoke these verses:
O monks! Listen carefully!
The path that the heir of the buddhas
Has practiced by learning skillful means
Cannot be conceived.
Because the bodhisattvas know
That sentient beings long for inferior teachings
And are afraid of great knowledge,
They make themselves either sravakas
Or pratyekabuddhas.
They inspire those sentient beings
Using innumerable skillful means, saying:
We are sravakas and still very far away
From attaining the buddha path.
28a142
The Lotus Sutra
They save immeasurable sentient beings,
All of whom they cause to attain perfection;
And they even cause those who are lazy,
Or who have lowly intentions,
Gradually to become buddhas.
These beings secretly carry out the bodhisattva practice
While outwardly calling themselves sravakas.
Having little desire,
Their thoughts fixed on birth and death,
They in fact purify the buddha lands.
These bodhisattvas show sentient beings
That they have the three poisons
And further they reveal the mark of false views.
In this way my disciples save
Sentient beings through skillful means.
If I fully disclosed
That they had taken on various forms,
The sentient beings hearing this
Would immediately become doubtful.
This Pur?a has now practiced the path
Under thousands of ko?is of buddhas in the past,
And he has propagated and protected
The teaching of these buddhas.
Seeking the highest wisdom
Under all these buddhas,
He showed that he was the foremost
Among the disciples,
And that he was knowledgeable and wise.
Fearless in his teaching,
He was able to gladden the people.
He never tired in performing
The actions of a buddha.
He has already attained the great transcendent powers
And is endowed with the fourfold unobstructed wisdom.
28b Knowing whether the faculties143
Chapter VIII
Of sentient beings are sharp or dull,
He always teaches the pure Dharma.
Expounding such doctrines as these,
He has taught thousands of ko?is of beings
And, by making them abide in the Mahayana teaching,
He himself has purified his buddha land.
In the future he will also pay homage to
Incalculable innumerable buddhas,
Protect and propagate the True Dharma,
And also purify his buddha land.
He will always fearlessly teach the Dharma
Using his skillful means,
Save incalculable sentient beings,
And enable them to achieve omniscience.
Paying homage to all the Tathagatas
And preserving the treasure house of the Dharma,
He will eventually become the Buddha
Called Dharmaprabhasa.
His land will be called Suvisuddha
Which will consist of the seven treasures;
His kalpa will be called Ratnavabhasa.
There will be a large number of bodhisattvas there
Numbering immeasurable ko?is.
His buddha land will be filled
With bodhisattvas who have attained
Great transcendent powers,
And are endowed with dignity.
There will also be innumerable sravakas
Who have perfected the three sciences,
The eight liberations,
And the fourfold unobstructed wisdom.
Such beings as these will form the sangha.
The sentient beings in his land
Will have already cut themselves off from sexual desires.
Everyone there will thus be pure and born spontaneously,144
The Lotus Sutra
With bodies adorned with the thirty-two marks.
They will feast on delight in the Dharma
And pleasure in meditation,
Never thinking of eating anything else.
There will be neither women
Nor troubled states of existence.
The qualities of the monk Pur?a
Will be completely perfected
And there will be many wise people
In this pure land.
I am now only briefly explaining
These immeasurable things.
Thereupon there were twelve hundred arhats, who had attained complete
mental discipline, who thought this: “We have joyfully attained an unprecedented experience. If the Bhagavat would give each of us a prediction like
those he has given the other great disciples, we would be overjoyed!”
The Buddha, knowing their minds, addressed Mahakasyapa, saying: “I
shall now bestow the prediction of highest, complete enlightenment one by
one on these twelve hundred arhats who are in my presence.
“My great disciple, the monk Ajñatakau??inya who is in this assembly,
will pay homage to sixty-two thousands of ko?is of buddhas. He will thereafter become the buddha called Samantaprabha, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed,
Knower of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas
and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat.
“The five hundred arhats beginning with Uruvilvakasyapa, Gayakasyapa,
Nadikasyapa, Kalodayin, Udayin, Aniruddha, Revata, Kapphi?a, Bakkula,
Cunda, Svagata, and the others will all attain highest, complete enlightenment. They will all have the same name, that of Samantaprabha.”
Then the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate the meaning of this further,
spoke these verses:
The monk Kau??inya
Will meet immeasurable buddhas
And, after incalculable kalpas have passed,
28c145
Chapter VIII
He will attain perfect enlightenment.
He will always emit a great ray of light
And will be endowed with transcendent powers.
His fame will spread universally
Throughout the ten directions.
He will be honored by all beings
And will always teach the highest path;
He will therefore be called Samantaprabha.
His land will be pure,
And the bodhisattvas there
Will all be of great vigor.
They will all ascend marvelous towers
And roam in the lands of the ten directions;
They will present the most excellent offerings
To all of the buddhas.
After having shown their reverence in this way,
They will be full of great joy
And immediately return to their own lands.
Such will be their transcendent powers.
The lifespan of this buddha
Will be sixty thousand kalpas
And the True Dharma will last
Twice as long as his lifespan.
The Semblance Dharma
Will last twice as long as this.
When the Dharma disappears,
The devas and humans will grieve.
Those five hundred monks
Will become buddhas each in their turn,
All having the same name Samantaprabha.
They will give predictions
One after the other, saying:
After my parinirva?a
So-and-so will become a buddha.
The world he inspires146
The Lotus Sutra
Will be exactly like mine today.
The embellishments of their lands,
All the transcendent powers,
The assembly of bodhisattvas and sravakas,
The True and Semblance Dharma,
The lifespan and duration of the kalpa,
Will be just as I explained before.
O Kasyapa! You now know
That the five hundred arhats
Whose minds are free,
And the remaining sravakas
Will also be exactly like this.
You should teach those
Who are not in this assembly!
Thereupon the five hundred arhats, having obtained their predictions
from the Buddha, were joyful and ecstatic. They rose from their seats,
approached the Buddha, bowed until their foreheads touched his feet, repented
of their faults, and reproached themselves, saying: “O Bhagavat! We have
always thought we had attained complete nirvana. We now realize that we
were ignorant. Why is this? We should have attained the wisdom of the
Tathagatas. Yet we were satisfied with little wisdom!
“O Bhagavat! Suppose there were a man who came to the house of a
close friend and went to sleep after becoming intoxicated with wine. The
intimate friend, having to go out on official business, sews a priceless jewel
into the inside of his friend’s garment and, giving it to him, leaves. But the
man who was drunk and asleep is totally unaware of this. After getting up
he leaves and roams around until he arrives in another country. Although he
diligently seeks for food and clothing they are very difficult to obtain. He is
satisfied if he just obtains a very meager amount. Later on the intimate friend
happens to meet this man. Seeing him, he says:
O poor fellow! How have you come to this state through lack of food
and clothing? Once, on such-and-such a day in such-and-such a month
and year, I sewed a priceless jewel into the inside of your garment,
29a147
Chapter VIII
wanting to make things easier for you and to let you enjoy the desires
of the five senses as much as you wished.
It is still there, although you aren’t aware of it, and you seek your
livelihood with great effort and hardship! You have been very foolish.
Sell this jewel and use it to buy what you need. From now on you will
know neither poverty nor want and can live as you wish.
“The Buddha is exactly like this. When he was a bodhisattva he aroused
in us the aspiration for omniscience. Nevertheless we forgot, we did not know
or understand. We attained the path of the arhats and considered that we had
attained nirvana. It was very hard for us to support ourselves and we were
satisfied with little. But we never fully lost our wish for all-knowledge. Now
the Bhagavat, perceiving our minds, has said this:
O monks! What you have attained is not the complete nirvana. For a
long time I have made you plant the various roots of good merit of a
buddha and shown you the marks of nirvana through skillful means.
That is why you consider yourselves to have actually attained nirvana!
“O Bhagavat! We now know that we are actually bodhisattvas and will
obtain a prediction of highest, complete enlightenment. For this reason we
are extremely happy at having obtained such an unprecedented experience.”
At that time Ajñatakau??inya and the others, wanting to elaborate on
the meaning of this further, spoke these verses:
We have heard his voice
Giving the prediction of utmost ease.
Rejoicing in this unprecedented experience,
We bow to the Buddha whose wisdom is immeasurable.
We now repent of our faults
In the presence of the Bhagavat.
Although we had attained
Only a small measure of nirvana,
Out of the immeasurable treasures of the Buddha,
We were self-satisfied,
Just like ignorant fools!
Suppose there were a poor man
29b148
The Lotus Sutra
Who went to the house of a close friend
Whose family was very wealthy.
He was entertained with a feast
And had a priceless jewel sewn
To the inside of his garment.
The wealthy friend made him this gift
Without saying anything, and went away.
The poor man had fallen asleep
And did not know of this.
Shortly afterward this man gets up,
And after wandering around
Arrives in another country.
He manages to seek out
Enough food and clothing to live
But has great difficulty in supporting himself.
Yet he is satisfied to obtain a little
And does not desire anything better.
He is still unaware of the priceless jewel
Sewn inside his garment.
The intimate friend who gave him the jewel
Meets this poor man later
And bitterly reproaches him,
Showing him the jewel
That had been sewn into his garment.
The poor man, seeing this jewel, rejoices greatly
And with this rich treasure he enjoys
To his satisfaction the desires of the five senses.
We are exactly like this.
For a long time, the Bhagavat
Has led and inspired us
Through his compassion,
And planted in us the highest aspiration.
Because we were ignorant
We neither noticed nor knew;
We were satisfied with attaining149
Chapter VIII
Only a small measure of nirvana
And did not seek for the rest.
Now the Buddha has enlightened us, saying:
This is not the real nirvana.
Attaining the highest wisdom of the buddhas
Is indeed the only real nirvana.
Now, having heard the predictions from the Buddha
And of the adorned lands,
And the subsequent predictions,
We universally rejoice in body and mind!Chapter IX
The Predictions for Those
Who Still Have More to Learn
and for Those Who Do Not
At that time Ananda and Rahula thought this: “The delight we would feel if
we were to receive our predictions is constantly before our minds!”
Then arising from their seats and going into the presence of the Buddha,
they bowed until their foreheads touched his feet, and spoke to him in unison, saying: “O Bhagavat! We should also be qualified to receive our predictions! Both of us take refuge only in the Tathagata. Moreover we are well
known by the devas, humans, and asuras throughout the entire world! Ananda
has always attended the Tathagata, preserving the treasure house of the
Dharma; and Rahula is the son of the Buddha. If the Buddha would bestow
upon us the prediction of highest, complete enlightenment then our vows
would be fulfilled and our wishes also realized!”
Then two thousand disciples, sravakas, some who still had more to learn,
and some who did not, all arose from their seats and with their right shoulders bared went into the presence of the Buddha. Attentively, with palms
pressed together, they gazed at the Bhagavat, all having the same wish as
Ananda and Rahula, and stood to one side. Then the Buddha addressed
Ananda, saying: “In the future world you will become a buddha called Sagaradharabuddhivikri?itarajabhijña, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened,
Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower of the World,
Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas and Humans, Buddha,
Bhagavat. You will pay homage to sixty-two ko?is of buddhas, preserve the
treasure house of the Dharma and ultimately attain highest, complete enlightenment. Further, you will inspire twenty thousands of myriads of ko?is of
bodhisattvas, equal in number to the sands of the Ganges River, causing them
to attain highest, complete enlightenment.
“Your land will be called Avanamitavaijayanta. It will be pure and the
earth will be made of lapis lazuli. The kalpa will be called Manojñasabda-
29cThe Lotus Sutra
bhigarjita. The lifespan of this buddha will be for immeasurable, incalculable thousands of myriads of ko?is of kalpas. Their number would be incalculable even if one were to count for immeasurable, innumerable thousands
of myriads of ko?is of kalpas. The True Dharma will abide in the world twice
as long as his lifespan and the Semblance Dharma will abide in the world
twice as long as the True Dharma.
“O Ananda! The virtues of this buddha Sagaradharabuddhivikri?itarajabhijña will be praised by immeasurable thousands of myriads of ko?is of
Buddha Tathagatas in the ten directions, equal in number to the sands of the
Ganges River.”
Thereupon the Tathagata, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
I now tell the assembly
That Ananda, the preserver of the Dharma,
Will pay homage to the buddhas
And ultimately attain complete enlightenment.
He will be called the Buddha
Sagaradharabuddhivikri?itarajabhijña.
His land will be pure
And called Avanamitavaijayanta
He will lead and inspire bodhisattvas
In numbers equal to the sands of the Ganges River.
This buddha will be endowed
With great virtue and dignity, and his fame
Will fill the ten directions.
His lifespan will be immeasurable
Due to his compassion for sentient beings.
The True Dharma will abide
Twice as long as his lifespan
And the Semblance Dharma will abide
Twice as long as the True Dharma.
Countless sentient beings
Within the Dharma of this buddha,
Equal in number to the sands of the Ganges River,
Will plant the seed of the buddha path.”
152Chapter IX
At that time the eight thousand bodhisattvas in the assembly, in whom
the thought of enlightenment (bodhicittta) had recently awakened, all thought
this: “Since we have never heard the great bodhisattvas receive predictions
like this, why should the sravakas now obtain it?”
Then the Bhagavat, knowing what the bodhisattvas were thinking, spoke
to them, saying: “O sons of a virtuous family! The thought of highest, complete enlightenment once awoke simultaneously in Ananda and myself in
the presence of the Buddha Dharmagaganabhyudgataraja. Ananda always
wanted to hear a great deal about the Dharma, and I always made diligent
efforts. For this reason I was shortly able to attain highest, complete enlightenment, whereas Ananda preserves my teaching and in the future will uphold
the treasure house of the Dharma of all the buddhas. He will lead, inspire,
and perfect the bodhisattvas. Since this was his original vow, he has obtained
this prediction!”
Ananda, while facing the Buddha in the audience, heard his own prediction and about the adornments of his land. His vow fulfilled, he rejoiced
greatly at attaining such an unprecedented experience. With his unobstructed
penetration he immediately remembered the treasure house of the Dharma
of the past immeasurable thousands of myriads of ko?is of buddhas as if he
had just heard of it today; and he also became aware of his original vow.
Thereupon Ananda spoke these verses:
The Bhagavat is truly extraordinary.
He has enabled me to recollect the Dharma
Of incalculable numbers of buddhas of the past,
Just as if I had first heard of the matter today.
I now have no further doubts.
I am established in the buddha path.
I have become an attendant of the Tathagata
And, as an attendant, I will preserve
The Dharma of all the buddhas, using skillful means.
Then the Buddha addressed Rahula, saying: “In the future you will
become a buddha called Saptaratnapadmavikrama, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed,
Knower of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas
30aThe Lotus Sutra
and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat. You will pay homage to the Buddha Tatha-
gatas, whose number is equal to that of the grains of dust in the ten worlds;
and you will always become the eldest son of all the buddhas just as you are
my eldest son now.
“The adornments of the land, the number of disciples led and inspired,
the duration of the True and Semblance Dharma of this buddha Saptaratnapadmavikrama will be just like those of the Buddha Sagaradharabuddhivikri?itarajabhijña, without the slightest difference. You will also become
the eldest son of this buddha and after that attain highest, complete enlightenment.”
At that time the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
When I was a prince,
Rahula was my eldest son.
And now that I have perfected the buddha path,
He accepts my teaching as the heir of the Dharma.
In the future he will meet
Immeasurable ko?is of buddhas.
Becoming the eldest son of all these buddhas,
He will wholeheartedly seek
The buddha path.
Only I am able to discern
Rahula’s unseen practice.
But now that he has become my eldest son,
He reveals it to the sentient beings.
His thousands of myriads
Of ko?is of merits are uncountable and incalculable;
He will become established in the Buddha-Dharma
And seek the highest path.
Then the Bhagavat perceived that the minds of those two thousand people, some of whom had more to learn and some of whom did not, were sincere, mild, and receptive. They were all attentively gazing at the Buddha.
The Buddha said to Ananda: “Do you not see these two thousand people,
some of whom have more to learn and some of whom do not?”
30bChapter IX
Ananda replied: “Yes, I see them.”
The Buddha said: “O Ananda! All of these people will pay homage to
the Buddha Tathagatas, whose number is equal to that of the grains of dust
in fifty worlds. They will respect, honor, and preserve the treasure house of
the Dharma and will later all become buddhas simultaneously in the worlds
of the ten directions. They will all have the same name, Ratnaketuraja, a
Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans,
Teacher of Devas and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat. Their lifespans will last
one kalpa. The adornments of their lands, the number of sravakas and bodhisattvas, and the duration of the True and Semblance Dharma will be the same
for all.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
Now in my presence
These two thousand sravakas
Have all received their predictions.
In the future they will all become buddhas.
The buddhas they will revere
Will be equal to the number of grains of dust,
Just as mentioned above.
Preserving this treasure house of the Dharma,
They will later attain complete enlightenment.
They will all have the same name
And dwell in the lands of the ten directions.
All sitting at the exact same time,
On the terrace of enlightenment,
They will attain the highest wisdom.
All of them will be called Ratnaketuraja.
Their lands, the number of disciples,
Duration of the True and Semblance Dharma
Will all be the same without any difference.
Moreover, through their transcendent powers,
They will save sentient beings
Throughout the ten directions.
Their fame will spread universally
And they will gradually enter nirvana.
Then the two thousand people, some of whom had more to learn and
some of whom did not, having heard their predictions from the Buddha,
rejoiced ecstatically and spoke in verse:
O Bhagavat, the Light of Wisdom!
We have just heard you give us our predictions
And our minds are full of joy,
Just as if we had been sprinkled
With the Dharma of immortality.
The Lotus Sutra157
Chapter X
The Expounder of the Dharma
Thereupon the Bhagavat by addressing Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja (Medicine King), through him addressed eighty thousand mahasattvas, saying: “O
Bhai?ajyaraja! In this assembly do you see innumerable humans and nonhumans such as devas, naga kings, yak?as, gandharvas, asuras, garu?as,
ki?naras, mahoragas, monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen, those seeking
the sravaka vehicle, the pratyekabuddha vehicle, and the buddha path? If,
in the presence of the Buddha any beings such as these hear a single verse
or line of the Lotus Sutra, and thereupon have even one thought of rejoicing
in it, I will bestow upon them my prediction that they will attain highest,
complete enlightenment.”
The Buddha addressed Bhai?ajyaraja, saying: “If, after the parinirva?a
of the Tathagata, any being hears even a single verse or line of the Lotus Sutra,
and thereupon has even one thought of rejoicing in it, I will bestow upon them
the prediction that they will attain highest, complete enlightenment.
“If there is anyone who preserves, recites, explains, or copies even a
single verse of the Lotus Sutra, or who respects this sutra as if it were a
buddha, or who reverently offers it various flowers, perfumes, necklaces,
fragrant ointments, scented powders, burning incense, canopies, flags, banners, clothing, or music, or who simply honors it with his palms pressed
together, know, O Bhai?ajyaraja, that this person has already paid homage
to tens of myriads of ko?is of buddhas of the past! Such people have completed their great vow in the presence of all the buddhas and yet they have
been born as humans out of their compassion for sentient beings.
“O Bhai?ajyaraja! If anyone should ask you what kind of sentient being
will become a buddha in the future, you should inform them that it is those
of this kind who will definitely become buddhas in the future. Why is this?
“If there are any sons or daughters of a virtuous family who preserve,
recite, explain, and copy even a single line of the Lotus Sutra, or who pay
homage to this sutra with various offerings of flowers, perfumes, necklaces,The Lotus Sutra
scented powders and ointments, burning incense, canopies, flags, banners,
clothing, or music, or who honor it with their palms pressed together, such
people should be respected by the entire world. They should be revered in
the same way as the Tathagata is revered. Know that these people are great
bodhisattvas who are to attain highest, complete enlightenment. Out of their
compassion for sentient beings they wish to be born among them in order to
expound and explain the Lotus Sutra far and wide. How much more to be
honored are those who completely preserve the entire sutra and pay homage
to it with various offerings!
“O Bhai?ajyaraja! You should know that after my parinirva?a these
people will set aside the rewards of their pure karma and be born in the troubled world out of their compassion for sentient beings, and in order to expound
this sutra far and wide. After my parinirva?a, if there are any sons and daughters of a virtuous family who expound even a single line of the Lotus Sutra
in private to even a single person, they should be acknowledged as the ambassadors of the Tathagata. They have been dispatched by the Tathagata and
carry out the Tathagata’s work. As for those who extensively teach among
the common people, know that they are yet greater ambassadors.
“O Bhai?ajyaraja, if there are erring people during a kalpa, those with
troubled thoughts who always disparage the Buddha in his presence, their
fault is nonetheless slight. Yet if there are those who disparage the laity or
ordained people who recite the Lotus Sutra even with a single evil word, their
fault is extremely grave.
“O Bhai?ajyaraja! Know that those who recite this Lotus Sutra adorn
themselves with the adornments of a buddha. This means that they will carry
the Tathagata on their shoulders and pay him homage wherever they go. They
should be respected, revered, honored, and praised wholeheartedly with palms
pressed together, through offerings of flowers, perfumes, necklaces, scented
powders, ointments, burning incense, canopies, flags, banners, clothing, delicious food, music, and the best offerings that people can make. They should
have heavenly jewels scattered upon them and offered to them. Why is this?
Because these people joyfully expound the Dharma and those who hear it
even for an instant will fully attain highest, complete enlightenment.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate upon the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
31aChapter X
Those who want to abide in the buddha path
And perfect the wisdom of the Self-generated One,
Should always diligently pay homage
To those who preserve the Lotus Sutra.
Those who want to quickly attain omniscience
Should hold to this sutra
And pay homage to those who preserve it.
Know that anyone who preserves the Lotus Sutra
Is an ambassador of the Buddha
Who feels compassion for sentient beings.
Those who preserve the Lotus Sutra
Were born here in this world,
Withholding themselves from the Pure Land
Out of their compassion for sentient beings.
Know that such people are born
Where and when they will.
They are born in this troubled world
To extensively expound the highest Dharma.
Such expounders of the Dharma should be revered
With offerings of divine flowers, perfumes,
Heavenly jeweled clothing, and exquisite celestial jewels.
Those who preserve this sutra
In the troubled world after my parinirva?a,
Should be paid homage with palms pressed together
Just as one pays homage to the Bhagavat.
These heirs of the buddhas should be revered
With delicious food, various delicacies,
And a variety of clothing, in the hope of hearing
The teaching even for an instant.
If in the future there is anyone
Who preserves this sutra,
I will dispatch him to the world of humans
To carry out the Tathagata’s task.
If throughout one entire kalpa
There is anyone with erring thoughts
31bThe Lotus Sutra
Who always disparages the Buddha
With an angry countenance, the consequences of
His grave errors will be incalculable.
If there is anyone who speaks
A hostile word even for an instant
About those who recite and preserve this Lotus Sutra,
His fault will be even greater.
If throughout one entire kalpa
There are people seeking for the buddha path
Who praise the Buddha in my presence
With incalculable numbers of verses
And with palms pressed together,
The merits they attain will be immeasurable
Because of praising this buddha.
If there are people who praise
Those who preserve the sutra,
Their merit will be even greater.
You must pay tribute to those who preserve the sutra
Throughout eighty ko?is of kalpas
With the best objects, sounds,
Fragrances, flavors, and materials.
If you are able to hear the teaching for even a moment,
After having paid tribute in this way,
You will then become delighted, thinking:
I have now attained great benefits.
O Bhai?ajyaraja! I now tell you that
I have taught many sutras;
Among these sutras, however,
The Lotus Sutra is the utmost and best.
Then the Buddha spoke further to Bodhisattva Mahasattva Bhai?ajyaraja,
saying: “There are immeasurable thousands of myriads of ko?is of sutras I
have taught in the past, which I teach now, and which I will teach in the
future. Among them, however, this Lotus Sutra is the most difficult to accept
and to understand.
160Chapter X
“O Bhai?ajyaraja! This sutra is the treasure house of the hidden essence
of all the buddhas. It must not be distributed or heedlessly bestowed upon
the people. Since times long past all the Buddha Bhagavats have protected
it and have never openly taught it. Moreover, people show great hostility to
this sutra, even in the presence of the Tathagata. How much more so after
the parinirva?a of the Tathagata!
“O Bhai?ajyaraja! You should know that after the parinirva?a of the
Tathagata, those who copy, preserve, recite, and revere this sutra and expound
it for the sake of others will be clothed with the Tathagata’s garments and
treasured by the present buddhas of the other directions. Such people will
have the power of great faith, the power of aspiration, as well as the power
of the roots of good merit. You should know that these people have dwelled
together with the Tathagata, and his hand has caressed their heads.
“O Bhai?ajyaraja! Wherever this sutra is taught, read, recited, copied,
or wherever it is to be found, one should build a seven-jeweled stupa of great
height and width and richly ornamented. There is no need to put a relic inside.
Why is this? Because the Tathagata is already in it. This stupa should be
respected, honored, praised and rendered homage with offerings of all kinds
of flowers, perfumes, necklaces, canopies, flags, banners, music, and songs.
If there is anyone able to see this stupa and to pay it homage and honor it, know
that such a one is nearing highest, complete enlightenment.
“O Bhai?ajyaraja! Among the many people, either among the laity or
the ordained, who practice the bodhisattva path, if they are unable to see,
hear, recite, copy, preserve, and pay homage to this Lotus Sutra, know that
they are people who are not yet properly practicing the bodhisattva path. If
anyone is able to hear this sutra, such a one is skillfully practicing the bodhisattva path. Among sentient beings seeking the buddha path, if there are
those who see or hear this Lotus Sutra and, after hearing it, are drawn to it
and preserve it, know that they are those who are approaching highest, complete enlightenment.
“O Bhai?ajyaraja! Suppose there were a thirsty man seeking water. He
drills in search of water on a high plain, yet he sees only dry earth and thus
realizes that water is still far away. But he does not cease his efforts until he
turns up moist earth and gradually reaches mud. Now he is sure that water
must be near.
31cThe Lotus Sutra
“The bodhisattvas are exactly like this. If they have not yet heard, understood, or been able to practice this Lotus Sutra, they should be known as
people who are still far away from highest, complete enlightenment. If they
hear, understand, contemplate, and are able to practice it, they realize that
they are certainly nearing highest, complete enlightenment. Why is this?
Because the highest, complete enlightenment of all the bodhisattvas is within
this sutra. This sutra opens the gate of skillful means and reveals the marks
of the truth. The treasure house of this Lotus Sutra is deep and remote. No
one is able to discover its depths. That is why the Buddha now reveals it,
inspiring and perfecting the bodhisattvas.
“O Bhai?ajyaraja! If there are bodhisattvas who hear this Lotus Sutra
and are confused and frightened, know that they are bodhisattvas in whom
the thought of enlightenment has only recently awakened. If there are sra-
vakas who hear this sutra and are confused and frightened, know that they
are people who have excessive pride.
“O Bhai?ajyaraja! If there are any sons and daughters of a virtuous family who, after the parinirva?a of the Tathagata, want to teach this Lotus Sutra
to the fourfold assembly, how should they teach it? These sons and daughters of a virtuous family, after entering the abode of the Tathagata, wearing
the Tathagata’s garments, and sitting on his seat, should then extensively
teach this sutra to the fourfold assembly. The Tathagata’s chamber is nothing but the great compassion toward all sentient beings. The Tathagata’s garments are the thoughts of gentleness and perseverance, and the Tathagata’s
seat is the very emptiness of all existing things. After settling among them
one should tirelessly and extensively expound this Lotus Sutra for the sake
of the bodhisattvas and the fourfold assembly.
“O Bhai?ajyaraja! I will dispatch transformed beings to other worlds
who will gather the people together to hear the teaching. I will also dispatch
transformed monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen to hear this teaching. All
these transformed beings will hear the Dharma, believe and accept it, and
not reject it.
“If an expounder of the Dharma resides in a secluded place, I will then
dispatch many devas, nagas, yak?as, gandharvas, and asuras to hear his
teaching. Although I will be in a different land, I will periodically let the
32aChapter X
expounders of the Dharma see me. If they forget a line of this sutra I will
explain it again, enabling them to master it.”
Thereupon, the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
If you wish to rid yourself of idleness,
You should listen to this sutra.
This sutra is rarely heard,
And it is also difficult to accept.
Suppose there were a thirsty man
Seeking for water by drilling
Into the earth on a high plain.
He sees only dry earth and knows
That water is still far away.
He gradually sees
The moist earth turn into mud
And knows with certainty
That water is near.
O Bhai?ajyaraja!
You should know that those people
Who do not hear the Lotus Sutra
Are very far away
From the Buddha’s wisdom.
If they hear this profound sutra
Which brings resolution to the sravakas
And if they hear this King of Sutras
And attentively contemplate it,
Know that these people
Are close to the Buddha’s wisdom.
If people want to expound this sutra,
They should enter the Tathagata’s chamber,
Put on the Tathagata’s garments,
And sit on the Tathagata’s seat.
They then should face the people without fear,
So that they may extensively
163The Lotus Sutra
Illuminate and explain it to the assembly.
The Tathagata’s chamber is great compassion,
His garments are gentleness and perseverance,
And his seat is the emptiness of all existent things.
After settling among them,
They should expound the Dharma.
Even if, when they expound this sutra,
People disparage them with evil words,
Or attack them with swords, sticks, tiles, or stones,
Being mindful of the Buddha,
They should persevere.
I will manifest my pure and solid form
In thousands of myriads of ko?is of lands
And teach the Dharma to sentient beings
For immeasurable ko?is of kalpas.
If after my parinirva?a
There is someone who is able to teach this sutra,
I will dispatch a transformed fourfold assembly
Of monks, nuns, laymen and laywomen
To pay homage to this expounder of the Dharma.
I will lead the sentient beings
And gather them together
To let them hear the teaching.
If anyone wishes to do ill to them
With swords, sticks, tiles, or stones,
Then I will dispatch those transformed ones
In order to guard them.
If there is any expounder of the Dharma
Who recites this sutra
In a secluded, tranquil place
Where there is no sound of human beings,
I will then manifest my body of pure light.
If they forget a chapter or a verse,
I will teach it to them,
Enabling them to master it.
32bChapter X
If anyone perfects these qualities
If he teaches the fourfold assembly
Or, in a solitary place, recites this sutra,
Such a person will be able to see me.
If anyone abides in a secluded place
I will dispatch devas, naga kings,
Yak?as, and rak?asas
To be an audience to their teaching.
Such people teach the Dharma willingly
And explain it without obstruction.
Because all the buddhas protect them
They gladden the great community of people.
Anyone who closely attends an expounder of the Dharma
Will immediately attain the bodhisattva path.
Anyone who follows this expounder’s instructions,
Will be able to meet buddhas
Equal in number to the sands of the Ganges River.
165Chapter XI
The Appearance of a
Jeweled Stupa
At that time there appeared before the Buddha a seven-jeweled stupa, five
hundred yojanas in height and two hundred and fifty yojanas both in length
and width, which emerged from the ground and hovered in the air. It was
adorned with various jewels, had five thousand railings, and thousands of
myriads of chambers. It was decorated with innumerable flags and banners
and hanging jeweled necklaces, and myriads of ko?is of jeweled bells hung
from the top. The fragrance of tamala leaves and sandalwood trees exuded
from all sides of the stupa, covering the world. The banners and umbrellas
were composed of the seven jewels such as gold, silver, lapis lazuli, motherof-pearl, agate, pearl, and ruby; and they rose as high as the palaces of the
world-protectors of the four quarters.
The thirty-three devas rained down heavenly mandarava flowers in homage to the jeweled stupa. The other thousands of myriads of ko?is of humans,
and such nonhumans as devas, nagas, yak?as, gandharvas, asuras, garu?as,
ki?naras, and mahoragas also respected, honored, revered, and praised the
precious stupa by offering all kinds of flowers, perfumes, necklaces, flags,
banners, and music.
Then a tremendous voice issued forth in praise from the jeweled stupa,
saying: “Splendid, splendid! O Sakyamuni! The Bhagavat teaches the Lotus
Sutra to the great assembly: the instruction for bodhisattvas and treasured
lore of the buddhas, which is the wisdom attainable by every sentient being!
Just so! Just so, O Sakyamuni Bhagavat! What you teach is true!”
Thereupon the fourfold assembly saw the great jeweled stupa hovering
in the air and also heard the voice that issued forth from the stupa. They all
were pleased with the teaching and marveled at this unprecedented experience. They stood up from their seats, honored Sakyamuni with their palms
pressed together, and withdrew to one side.
32cThe Lotus Sutra
At that time there was a bodhisattva mahasattva called Mahapratibhana
who, realizing that the devas, humans, and asuras of the entire world were
puzzled, addressed the Buddha saying: “O Bhagavat! Why has this jeweled
stupa emerged from the earth? And why has this voice come forth from it?”
Then the Buddha told Bodhisattva Mahapratibhana: “The Tathagata is
in this jeweled stupa. In the remote past, immeasurable, incalculable thousands of myriads of ko?is of worlds away in the east there was a land called
Ratnavisuddha. In that land there was a buddha called Prabhutaratna. When
this buddha was practicing the bodhisattva path in his previous lives he made
a great vow, saying:
If I become a buddha, after my parinirva?a if the Lotus Sutra is being
taught anywhere in all the lands of the ten directions, my stupa shall
appear there so that this sutra may be heard, and in order that I may
bear testimony to it and praise it with the word “Splendid!”
“After the Buddha had perfected the path and immediately before his
parinirva?a, he addressed the monks among the great assembly of devas and
humans, saying:
After my parinirva?a anyone who wishes to pay me homage should
build a great stupa!
“If there is anyone teaching the Lotus Sutra anywhere in the worlds of
the ten directions, this buddha makes a jeweled stupa emerge out of the
ground in that place through his transcendent powers and the power of his
vow. He is in the stupa giving praise with the words, ‘Splendid, splendid!’
“O Mahapratibhana! The Tathagata Prabhutaratna has now emerged
from the earth, within his stupa, so that he may hear the Lotus Sutra and give
praise with the words, ‘Splendid, splendid!’”
At that time Bodhisattva Mahapratibhana spoke to the Buddha through
the Tathagata’s transcendent powers, saying: “O Bhagavat! We all want to
see this buddha’s form.”
The Buddha answered Bodhisattva Mahasattva Mahapratibhana, saying: “This Buddha Prabhutaratna made a great vow, saying:
Whenever my jeweled stupa appears in the presence of a buddha in
order to hear the Lotus Sutra, if that buddha wants to show my form
168Chapter XI
to the fourfold assembly he should gather into one place all his magically created forms that are teaching the Dharma in the worlds of the
ten directions. After that my form will appear.
“O Mahapratibhana! I shall now gather all my magically created forms
who are teaching the Dharma in the worlds of the ten directions.”
Mahapratibhana spoke to the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! We also
strongly wish to see the Bhagavat’s magically created forms, to honor and
pay homage to them!”
Then the Buddha emitted a ray of light from the tuft of white hair between
his eyebrows; and they immediately saw the buddhas in five hundred myriads of ko?is of nayutas of lands in the eastern direction equal in number to
the sands of the Ganges River. In these lands the soil was of crystal and
adorned with treasure trees and jeweled garments; and these lands were full
of innumerable thousands of myriads of ko?is of bodhisattvas. Jeweled drapes
were hung everywhere and were covered with jeweled nets. All the buddhas
in these lands were teaching the Dharma in most harmonious voices. They
also saw immeasurable thousands of myriads of ko?is of bodhisattvas, filling
all the lands and teaching the Dharma to sentient beings.
The other directions to the south, north, and west, the four intermediary
directions, and the upper and lower regions were also illuminated by the ray of
light emitted from the tuft of white hair between the Buddha’s eyebrows; and
they were also exactly like this.
Then all the buddhas in the ten directions each addressed the assembly
of bodhisattvas, saying: “O sons of a virtuous family! We will now go to the
place where Sakyamuni is in the saha world and pay homage to the jeweled
stupa of the Tathagata Prabhutaratna.”
At that time the saha world was immediately purified; the earth was of
lapis lazuli, adorned with jeweled trees, its roads laid out like a chessboard
and bordered with golden cords; and there were no villages, towns, cities,
oceans, rivers, mountains, streams, forests, or groves. Very precious incense
was burning, mandarava flowers were spread everywhere on the earth, and
it was covered with jeweled nets and drapes from which jeweled bells hung.
With the exception of this assembly the devas and human beings were all
moved to other lands.
33aThe Lotus Sutra
Then the buddhas each took one great bodhisattva as an attendant and
arrived under a jeweled tree in the saha world. Each jeweled tree was five
hundred yojanas in height and adorned with branches, leaves, blossoms, and
fruits in their proper turn. Under all these jeweled trees were lion seats five
yojanas in height that were adorned with great jewels. The buddhas each sat
cross-legged on these seats. They sat one after another in this way, filling
the great manifold cosmos. Yet the separate forms of Sakyamuni Buddha of
even one direction had not all arrived yet.
At that time Sakyamuni Buddha, wanting to be able to receive all of his
magically created forms, transformed and purified two hundred myriads of
ko?is of nayutas of lands in each of the world-systems in the eight directions.
There were no hells, hungry ghosts, animals, or asuras; and all the devas
and humans were moved to other lands.
In these transformed lands the earth was made of lapis lazuli and adorned
with jeweled trees. These trees were five hundred yojanas in height and were
adorned with branches, leaves, blossoms, and fruits in their proper turn. Under
every tree was a jeweled lion seat five yojanas in height which was adorned
with various jewels. There were no oceans, rivers, or great mountain kings
such as Mount Mucilinda, Mount Mahamucilinda, Mount Cakrava?a, Mount
Mahacakrava?a, or Mount Sumeru. The lands were all made into one buddha
world throughout. The jeweled earth was level and covered everywhere with
jewel-studded drapes. Banners and umbrellas were set up, precious incense
was burning, and heavenly jeweled flowers covered the ground everywhere.
Then Sakyamuni Buddha again transformed and purified two hundred
myriads of ko?is of nayutas of lands in each of the eight directions so that
the buddhas could come and sit. There were no hells, hungry ghosts, animals, or asuras; and the devas and humans were moved to other lands.
In the transformed lands the earth was of lapis lazuli and adorned with
jeweled trees. The trees were five hundred yojanas in height and were adorned
with branches, leaves, blossoms, and fruits in their proper turn. Under these
trees were jeweled lion seats that were five yojanas in height and decorated
with great jewels. There were no oceans, rivers, or great mountain kings such
as Mount Mucilinda, Mount Mahamucilinda, Mount Cakrava?a, Mount
Mahacakrava?a, or Mount Sumeru. The lands were all made into one buddha
world throughout. The jeweled earth was level and covered everywhere with
170Chapter XI
jewel-studded drapes. Banners and umbrellas were set up, precious incense
was burning, and heavenly jeweled flowers covered the ground everywhere.
Then the magically created forms of Sakyamuni Buddha, which had
been teaching the Dharma in the hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is
of nayutas of lands in the east, equal in number to the sands of the Ganges
River, gathered here.
In this way all the buddhas in the ten directions gradually came until all
were assembled, sitting in the eight directions. At that time these Buddha
Tathagatas filled four hundred myriads of ko?is of nayutas of lands in each
direction. Then sitting on the lion seats under the jeweled trees, the buddhas
each dispatched their attendants with hands full of jeweled flowers to inquire
after the Buddha Sakyamuni, saying: “O son of a virtuous family! You should
approach the Buddha Sakyamuni on Mount G?dhraku?a and give him a greeting, saying:
Are you without illness and pain and are you full of vigor and at ease;
and are the assemblies of bodhisattvas and sravakas all at ease or not?
“Then, having paid homage to the Buddha by scattering him with these
jeweled flowers, say this to him:
The Buddha So-and-so wishes you to open this jeweled stupa.
All the other buddhas dispatched their messengers like this.”
Then the Buddha Sakyamuni saw that his magically created forms had
already gathered and were each sitting on a lion seat. And he heard that all
the buddhas also wanted him to open the treasured stupa. Immediately rising, he hovered in the air and the entire fourfold assembly rose and gazed
attentively at the Buddha with their palms pressed together.
Thereupon Sakyamuni Buddha opened the entrance to the seven-jeweled stupa with his right finger. There was a tremendous sound as if the bar
and lock to the gateway of a large city were being pushed aside. Then immediately the entire gathering saw the Tathagata Prabhutaratna in the jeweled
stupa sitting on a lion seat as if he were in meditation, his body whole and
undecomposed.
They heard him say: “Splendid, splendid! The Buddha Sakyamuni is
teaching the Lotus Sutra and I have come in order to hear it.”
33cThe Lotus Sutra
At that time the fourfold assembly saw the Buddha who had entered
parinirva?a immeasurable thousands of myriads of ko?is of kalpas ago speaking those words. They praised this unprecedented experience and scattered
heavenly jeweled flowers upon the buddhas Prabhutaratna and Sakyamuni.
Then from within the stupa the Buddha Prabhutaratna offered half of
his seat to the Buddha Sakyamuni, saying: “O Sakyamuni Buddha, please
take a seat here!”
The Buddha Sakyamuni immediately entered the stupa and sat crosslegged on half of the seat. Thereupon the great assembly saw the two Tatha-
gatas sitting cross-legged on the lion seat in the seven-jeweled stupa and
they each thought thus: “The buddhas are seated far away. O Tathagata, we
entreat you to use your transcendent powers so that we may be in the air
together with you.”
The Buddha Sakyamuni immediately moved the entire fourfold assembly into the air through his transcendent powers and addressed them with a
great voice, saying: “Who in the saha world is able to extensively teach the
Lotus Sutra? It is now the right time! The Tathagata will enter parinirva?a
before long and the Buddha wants to transmit this Lotus Sutra to you.
Thereupon the Buddha, wanting to further elaborate upon the meaning
of this, spoke these verses:
Although the Great Sage, the Bhagavat,
Entered parinirva?a long ago,
He has been abiding in a jeweled stupa;
And he has now come for the sake of the Dharma.
Why is it that people
Do not strive for the Dharma?
Although this buddha entered parinirva?a
Incalculable kalpas ago,
Because it is difficult to encounter,
He listens to the Dharma
Wherever it is taught.
The original vow of this buddha was:
After my parinirva?a
I will always listen to the Dharma
Wherever it may be.
172Chapter XI
My magically created forms,
Incalculable as the sands of the Ganges River,
Have come to hear the Dharma
And see the Tathagata Prabhutaratna,
Who has entered nirvana.
Each buddha-form, having abandoned his beautiful land,
Disciples, devas, humans, nagas,
And ritual tributes, has come here
So that the Dharma may abide forever.
In order to seat all these buddhas,
I transferred immeasurable beings
And purified the lands
Through my transcendent powers;
And each of these buddhas
Settled under a jeweled tree—
As lotus blossoms
Adorn a limpid, cool pond.
Under every jeweled tree was a lion seat
On which the buddhas sat radiating light—
As a great bonfire
Blazes in the dark of the night.
They emitted a subtle fragrance from their bodies
Which filled the lands of the ten directions.
Sentient beings who smelled this fragrance
Were overcome with unsurpassed joy,
Like branches of a small tree
Being blown by a great wind.
Through this skillful means
I enable the Dharma to abide forever.
I tell the great assembly
That after my nirvana
Whoever can preserve and recite this sutra
Should now individually make a declaration
In the presence of the buddhas.
Although the Buddha Prabhutaratna
34aThe Lotus Sutra
Entered parinirva?a long ago,
Through his great vow
He has roared the lion’s roar.
The Tathagata Prabhutaratna,
I myself, and all the magically created forms
Who have gathered here
Should know this intention.
O heirs of the buddhas!
Whoever is able to preserve the Dharma
Should make a great vow
So that it may abide forever.
Whoever is able to preserve
The teaching of this sutra
Will thus honor me
And Prabhutaratna.
This Buddha Prabhutaratna
Always roams the ten directions
In a jeweled stupa
In order to hear this sutra.
He also honors
All the transformed buddhas
Who have come here and who adorn
All the worlds with light.
Whoever teaches this sutra will see me,
The Tathagata Prabhutaratna,
And the transformed buddhas.
O sons of a virtuous family!
Each of you must carefully consider this.
This is indeed a difficult matter.
Make a great vow accordingly!
It is not really difficult
To teach all of the other sutras,
The number of which is
Equal to the sands of the Ganges River.
It is not difficult
174Chapter XI
To take Mount Sumeru
And throw it to another quarter,
Over innumerable buddha worlds.
It is also not difficult
To shake free the manifold cosmos
With one toe and throw it
Far into another distant world.
It is not difficult to stand
On the highest summit of the world
And teach the other innumerable sutras
For the sake of sentient beings.
However, it will indeed be difficult
To teach this sutra in the troubled world
After the Buddha’s nirvana.
It is not difficult for anyone
To grasp empty space
And wander around with it.
But it will certainly be difficult to copy
And preserve this sutra
And cause others to copy it
After my nirvana.
It is not really difficult
To put the great earth on a toenail
And ascend with it
To the world of Brahmas.
However, it will indeed be difficult
To recite this sutra,
Even for a moment,
In the troubled world
After the Buddha’s nirvana.
It is not really difficult
To enter into the conflagration
At the time of the close of a kalpa
Carrying hay on your back
And yet not be burned.
175The Lotus Sutra
It certainly will be difficult
To preserve this sutra
And teach it to even a single person
After my nirvana.
It is indeed not really difficult for anyone to preserve
The eighty-four thousand treasure houses of the Dharma,
And the twelvefold scriptures,
And teach them so that the listeners
Can attain the six transcendent powers.
It will indeed be difficult for anyone
To hear and accept this sutra
And to ask about its meaning
After my nirvana.
It is not really difficult for people to do
Such beneficial things as teaching the Dharma
And making thousands of myriads of ko?is of
Immeasurable, incalculable sentient beings,
Numbering as many as the sands of the Ganges River,
Attain arhatship and perfect
The six transcendent powers.
It will certainly be difficult
To preserve such a sutra as this
After my nirvana.
I have extensively taught many sutras
In incalculable lands
From the beginning until now,
For the sake of the buddha path;
And yet among them
This sutra is the best.
If anyone preserves it,
He preserves the form of the Buddha.
O sons of a virtuous family!
Those who preserve and recite this [Lotus] Sutra
After my nirvana
Must now individually make a declaration
34bChapter XI
In the presence of the buddhas.
It is hard to preserve this sutra.
If anyone preserves it
Even for a single moment,
I shall truly rejoice.
All of the other buddhas
Will do so also.
Such people as these
Are praised by the buddhas.
They are courageous.
They are persevering.
They are known as those
Who follow the rules of good conduct
And carry out ascetic practices.
Subsequently they quickly attain
The highest buddha path.
Those in the future
Who recite and preserve this sutra,
Are the true heirs of the Buddha
And abide in the stage of purity.
Those who can understand its meaning
After the Buddha’s nirvana
Will become the Eyes of the World
For devas and humans.
Those who teach it, even for a moment,
In the fearful world
Will be revered
By all the devas and humans.
177Chapter XII
Devadatta
The Buddha then addressed the assembly of bodhisattvas, and also the devas,
humans, and the fourfold assembly, saying: “In the past, immeasurable kalpas
ago, I tirelessly sought the Lotus Sutra. Throughout many kalpas I always
became a king and made a vow to seek highest enlightenment. My mind became
irreversible. Wanting to fulfill the six perfections I diligently carried out practices: unstintingly giving elephants, horses, the seven precious treasures, countries and cities, wives and children, male and female servants, my head, eyes,
marrow and brains, the flesh of my body, hands, and feet, without stinginess,
not even hesitating to give my own life.
“At that time the lifespan of the people in the world was immeasurable.
In order to seek the Dharma I abandoned my kingdom and abdicated my
throne to the crown prince. Beating a drum I proclaimed to the four directions that I was seeking the Dharma, saying:
I will be as a servant for the rest of my life to whosoever can teach me
the Mahayana.
“At that time there was a sage who came to this king and said:
I possess the Mahayana teaching called the Lotus Sutra. If you faithfully obey me I will expound it to you.
“Having heard the sage, the king became joyful and ecstatic and, accompanying the sage, he did everything he was asked. He gathered fruits, drew
water, collected firewood, and provided meals. He even provided his own
body as a bed for the sage. Yet he never tired in either body or mind and in
this way served the sage for one thousand years. For the sake of the Dharma
he served him diligently, making certain the sage never lacked for anything.”
At that time the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
34cThe Lotus Sutra
I remember that in the past, many kalpas ago,
Although I became king of the world,
In order to seek the great Dharma
I was never attached to the desires of the five senses.
Striking a bell I declared this
To the four directions:
If anyone possesses the great Dharma
And explains it to me,
I will become his servant.
At that time there was a sage called Asita
Who came to the great king and said:
I possess a subtle and true Dharma
That is rare in the world.
If you are able to practice it,
I will explain it to you!
On hearing what the sage said
The king became overjoyed.
He immediately accompanied the sage
And performed whatever he was asked.
He gathered firewood and various fruits
And respectfully offered them whenever requested.
Because he longed for the True Dharma,
He never tired in body or mind.
For the sake of sentient beings
He diligently sought everywhere the great Dharma.
He never sought it for his own sake
Nor for the desires of the five senses.
For this reason, although a great king,
He diligently sought and attained this Dharma,
Ultimately becoming a buddha.
That is why I now tell you this.
The Buddha addressed the monks, saying: “The king at that time was I
myself, and the sage was he who is now Devadatta. Through the virtuous
180Chapter XII
friendship of Devadatta I was able to become endowed with the six perfections, benevolence, compassion, sympathetic joy, generosity, the thirty-two
marks, the eighty excellent characteristics, reddish-gold skin, the ten powers, the four kinds of fearlessness, the four methods of gaining trust, the eighteen excellent qualities, the transcendent powers, and the power of the path.
It is all due to the good and virtuous friendship of Devadatta that I attained
complete enlightenment and extensively saved innumerable sentient beings.”
The Buddha addressed the fourfold assembly, saying: “After immeasurable kalpas have passed, Devadatta will then become a buddha called
Devaraja, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower of the World, Unsurpassed,
Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat. His
world will be called Devasopana. At that time the Buddha Devaraja will
abide in the world for twenty intermediate kalpas and extensively teach the
True Dharma to sentient beings. Sentient beings equal in number to the sands
of the Ganges River will attain arhatship. The thought of a pratyekabuddha
has awakened in incalculable numbers of sentient beings. The thought of the
highest path will awaken in sentient beings equal in number to the sands of
the Ganges River, and they will become convinced of the nonarising of all
dharmas and reside in the stage of nonretrogression.
“Then, after the parinirva?a of the Buddha Devaraja, the True Dharma
will abide in the world for twenty intermediate kalpas. A seven-jeweled
stupa, sixty yojanas in height and forty yojanas in both length and width,
will be built for all his relics; and all the devas and humans will honor and
revere this beautiful seven-jeweled stupa with various flowers, scented powders, burning incense, fragrant ointments, clothing, necklaces, banners, flags,
jeweled canopies, music, and songs. Incalculable sentient beings will attain
arhatship. Innumerable sentient beings will be enlightened as pratyekabuddhas;
and the thought of enlightenment will awaken in an inconceivable number
of sentient beings, and they will reach the stage of nonretrogression.”
The Buddha addressed the monks, saying: “If, in the future, there are sons
and daughters of a virtuous family who, upon hearing the Devadatta chapter
of the Lotus Sutra, accept it with pure minds and without doubt, they shall not
fall into the realms of hell or to the states of hungry ghosts or of animals, but
will be born in the presence of the buddhas in the ten directions. Wherever
35aThe Lotus Sutra
they may be, they will always hear this sutra. If they are born among humans
or devas, they will enjoy a supreme and delightful contentment; and if in the
presence of a buddha, they will be born spontaneously in a lotus flower.”
At that time, in the lower region there was a bodhisattva called Prajña-
ku?a who was accompanying the Bhagavat Prabhutaratna. He urged the
Buddha Prabhutaratna to return to their original land. The Buddha Sakyamuni addressed Prajñaku?a, saying: “O son of a virtuous family! Wait for a
moment! There is a bodhisattva called Mañjusri. Let us meet him together
and discuss the True Dharma. After that you can return to your original land.”
At that time Mañjusri, sitting on a thousand-petaled lotus flower as large
as a carriage wheel, together with attendant bodhisattvas also seated on jeweled lotus flowers, emerged spontaneously out of the ocean from the palace
of the naga king Sagara and floated in midair. Arriving at Mount G?dhraku?a
they descended from the lotus flowers and went into the presence of the
buddhas, where they bowed until their foreheads touched the feet of both
Bhagavats. Having honored them, Mañjusri approached Prajñaku?a. They
greeted each other and withdrew to sit at one side. Then Bodhisattva Prajña-
ku?a asked Mañjusri, saying: “Your Eminence! How many sentient beings
did you lead and inspire at the palace of the naga king?”
Mañjusri answered: “The number is immeasurable and incalculable. It is
not possible to express it in words nor is it possible to calculate it with one’s
mind. Wait a moment and you will have proof!”
Before he had finished speaking, innumerable bodhisattvas emerged
from the ocean, seated on jeweled lotus flowers. Arriving at Mount G?dhraku?a
they floated in midair. All of these were bodhisattvas who had been led and
inspired by Mañjusri. Those who had perfected the bodhisattva practices discussed the six perfections together. Those who were originally sravakas
explained the sravaka practices in the air; and now they all practice to understand the meaning of emptiness of the Mahayana.
Mañjusri said to Prajñaku?a: “Thus did I lead and inspire people in the
ocean!”
Thereupon Bodhisattva Prajñaku?a spoke these verses in praise:
O One of great wisdom, virtue, and courage!
This assembly and I have now all witnessed that
You have led and inspired
35bChapter XII
Incalculable numbers of sentient beings.
You have expounded the essential character of dharmas
And revealed the teaching of the single vehicle.
You have extensively led many sentient beings,
Causing them to quickly attain enlightenment.
Mañjusri said: “In the ocean I always expounded only the Lotus Sutra.”
Then Prajñaku?a questioned Mañjusri, saying: “This sutra is profound
and subtle. It is a jewel among sutras and rare in the world. If sentient beings
diligently strive to practice this sutra, will they immediately become buddhas
or not?”
Mañjusri answered: “Yes, they will. There is the daughter of the naga
king Sagara who is only eight years old. She is wise; her faculties are sharp;
and she also well knows all the faculties and deeds of sentient beings. She
has attained the power of recollection. She preserves all the profound secret
treasures taught by the buddhas, enters deep meditation, and is well capable
of discerning all dharmas. She instantly produced the thought of enlightenment and attained the stage of nonretrogression. She has unhindered eloquence and thinks of sentient beings with as much compassion as if they
were her own children. Her virtues are perfect. Her thoughts and explanations are subtle and extensive, merciful, and compassionate. She has a harmonious mind and has attained enlightenment.”
The Bodhisattva Prajñaku?a said: “I see the Tathagata Sakyamuni who
has been incessantly carrying out difficult and severe practices for immeasurable kalpas, accumulating merit and virtue while seeking the bodhisattva
path. Looking into the great manifold cosmos, there is not a single place
even the size of a mustard seed where this bodhisattva has not abandoned
his life for the sake of sentient beings. He attained the path to enlightenment
only after this. It is hard to believe that this girl will instantly attain complete enlightenment.”
Before he had finished speaking the daughter of the naga king suddenly
appeared in their presence. Bowing until her forehead touched their feet, she
withdrew to one side and spoke these verses in praise:
The Buddha is deeply versed
In the characteristics of good and evil,
183The Lotus Sutra
And he completely illuminates the ten directions.
His subtle and pure Dharma body
Is endowed with the thirty-two marks;
With the eighty good characteristics
Is his Dharma body adorned.
He is adored by devas and humans,
And honored by nagas.
There is no sentient being
Who does not pay him homage.
Moreover, that I will attain enlightenment
Upon hearing him
Can only be known by a buddha.
I will reveal the teaching of the Mahayana
And save suffering sentient beings.
At that time Sariputra spoke to the daughter of the naga king, saying:
“You say that you will soon attain the highest path. This is difficult to believe.
Why is this? The female body is polluted; it is not a fit vessel for the Dharma.
How can you attain highest enlightenment?
“The buddha path is long. One can only attain it after diligently carrying out severe practices, and completely practicing the perfections over
immeasurable kalpas. Moreover, the female body has five obstructions. The
first is the inability to become a great Brahma. The second is the inability to
become Sakra. The third is the inability to become Mara, and the fourth is
the inability to become a universal monarch (cakravartin). The fifth is the
inability to become a buddha. How can you with your female body quickly
become a buddha?”
Then the daughter of the naga king presented to the Buddha a jewel
worth the great manifold cosmos, and the Buddha accepted it. The daughter of the naga king spoke to Bodhisattva Prajñaku?a and the noble Sariputra,
saying: “I offered a jewel and the Bhagavat accepted it. Was that done quickly
or not?”
They answered, saying: “It was done extremely quickly!”
The daughter said: “Through your transcendent powers watch me become
a buddha even more quickly than that!”
35cChapter XII
Then the assembly there all saw the daughter of the naga king instantly
transform into a man, perfect the bodhisattva practices, go to the vimala
world in the south, sit on a jeweled lotus flower, and attain highest, complete
enlightenment, become endowed with the thirty-two marks and eighty excellent characteristics, and expound the True Dharma universally for the sake
of all sentient beings in the ten directions.
Then the bodhisattvas, sravakas, eight kinds of devas, nagas, and so on,
humans and nonhumans of the saha world, all saw in the distance that the
daughter of the naga king had become a buddha and was universally teaching the Dharma for the sake of the humans and devas in that assembly. They
rejoiced greatly and honored her from afar.
On hearing the Dharma, incalculable numbers of sentient beings became
enlightened and attained the stage of nonretrogression. Incalculable numbers of sentient beings received their predictions to the path and the vimala
world quaked in six ways. In the saha world three thousand sentient beings
attained the stage of nonretrogression, and three thousand sentient beings,
in whom the thought of enlightenment had awakened, received their predictions. The Bodhisattva Prajñaku?a, Sariputra, and the entire assembly
accepted and believed in silence.
185Chapter XIII
Perseverance
At that time Bodhisattva Mahasattva Bhai?ajyaraja and Bodhisattva
Mahasattva Mahapratibhana made this declaration in the presence of the
Buddha, together with two thousand bodhisattvas: “O Bhagavat! We entreat
you not to be concerned since, after the Buddha’s parinirva?a we will preserve, recite, and teach this [Lotus] Sutra! In the troubled world to come,
sentient beings will have hardly any roots of good merit but will have excessive pride and will be greedy to receive offerings. They will increase their
roots of bad merit and thus will be far away from liberation. It will be difficult to lead and inspire them. Therefore, we will produce the power of great
patience and recite, preserve, teach, and copy this sutra as well as pay it homage in various ways, even willingly giving up our bodies and lives.”
Then in the assembly, five hundred arhats who had received their predictions addressed the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! We also declare that
in other lands we will extensively teach this sutra.”
Moreover, eight thousand of those who had received their predictions,
including those who had more to learn and those who did not, rose from their
seats and with their palms pressed together, faced the Buddha and made this
declaration: “O Bhagavat! We also will extensively teach this sutra in other
lands. Why is this? Because in the saha world there are many erring people,
with excessive pride and superficial virtue, those who are quick to anger,
deceitful, and untrue.”
Thereupon the Buddha’s aunt, the nun Mahaprajapati Gautami, with six
thousand nuns, some of whom had more to learn and some who did not, rose
from their seats and with their palms pressed together gazed attentively at the
Buddha, never turning their eyes away. Then the Bhagavat spoke to Mahapraja-
pati Gautami, saying:
“Why are you anxiously staring at the Tathagata? Are you thinking that
I have not given you your prediction of highest, complete enlightenment? O
36aThe Lotus Sutra
Mahaprajapati Gautami! I have previously said that all of the sravakas would
receive their predictions. Now if you wish to know your prediction, I will
tell you that in the future you will become a great expounder of the Dharma,
taught by sixty-eight thousand ko?is of buddhas. These six thousand nuns,
some of whom have more to learn and some who do not, will all become
expounders of the Dharma together. In this way you will gradually be able
to complete the bodhisattva path and become a buddha called Sarvarupasa?darsana, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower of the World, Unsurpassed,
Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat. O
Mahaprajapati Gautami! This Buddha Sarvarupasa?darsana will give predictions of highest, complete enlightenment one by one to bodhisattvas totaling six thousand in number.”
Then the nun Yasodhara, the mother of Rahula, thought this: “While
giving the predictions, the only name the Bhagavat did not mention was
mine.”
The Buddha addressed Yasodhara, saying: “In the future you will cultivate the bodhisattva practice of the teachings of hundreds of thousands of
myriads of ko?is of buddhas. You will become a great expounder of the
Dharma, and gradually complete the buddha path. In a land called Bhadra
you will become a buddha called Rasmisatasahasraparipur?adhvaja, a Tatha-
gata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct,
Well-Departed, Knower of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans,
Teacher of Devas and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat. This buddha’s lifespan
will be for immeasurable, incalculable kalpas.”
At that time the nun Mahaprajapati Gautami and the nun Yasodhara
together with their attendants all rejoiced greatly at having attained such an
unprecedented experience. In the presence of the Buddha they immediately
spoke in verse, saying:
O Bhagavat! As a great leader
You bring ease to devas and humans.
Having heard our predictions,
Our minds are at peace
And we are content.
36bChapter XIII
Having spoken this verse all the nuns addressed the Buddha, saying: “O
Bhagavat! We also will extensively expound this sutra in other lands.”
Then the Bhagavat saw eighty myriads of ko?is of nayutas of bodhisattva mahasattvas, all of whom were at the stage of nonretrogression. They
had turned the irreversible wheel of the Dharma and attained the power of
recollection. Arising from their seats they went before the Buddha with their
palms pressed together and with this wholehearted thought: “If the Bhagavat commands us to preserve and teach this sutra, then we will extensively
expound this Dharma exactly as the Buddha has taught.”
They also thought: “The Buddha now keeps silent and does not command us. What should we do?”
Then all of the bodhisattvas, respecting the Buddha’s intention and also
wanting to fulfill their original vow, uttered a lion’s roar in the presence of
the Buddha and declared: “O Bhagavat! After the Tathagata’s parinirva?a
we will roam throughout the worlds of the ten directions enabling sentient
beings to copy, preserve, and recite this [Lotus] Sutra, and to explain its
meaning, practice it according to the Dharma, and remember it correctly.
This will all be due to the Buddha’s majestic power.
“O Bhagavat! We entreat you to protect us from afar while we are in
other quarters.”
Immediately after that, all of the bodhisattvas spoke these verses in
unison:
We entreat you not to be concerned
Because we will extensively teach
In the fearful, troubled world,
After the Buddha’s parinirva?a.
We will be patient
With those who are ignorant,
Those who disparage others with evil words,
Or who attack us with sticks and swords.
Monks in this troubled world
Will have false wisdom
And be deceitful.
They will think they have attained
189The Lotus Sutra
What they have not, and their minds
Will be full of conceit.
Then there will be those who dwell
In tranquil forests wearing rags,
With the thought that they alone practice the true path,
And who look down on those who lead worldly lives.
There will be those who teach the Dharma
To laypeople only out of greed for offerings,
Yet they will be respected in the world
As if they were arhats endowed with
The six transcendent powers.
The minds of such people are in error;
They are always thinking about worldly matters;
And they enjoy pointing out our faults,
Playing the role of the forest dwellers,
Thus they will say such things as:
All of these monks here
Teach heretical doctrines
Because they are greedy for profit!
They have fabricated this sutra
To deceive the people of the world,
And they explain this sutra
Out of desire for fame!
They always want to slander us
In the great assembly;
They slander us to the kings,
Ministers, brahmans, householders,
And to other monks, saying that we are evil.
They say:
These are people of false views
Who teach heretical doctrines.
Since we revere the Buddha,
We will be patient with their wickedness.
36cChapter XIII
They will mockingly address us, saying:
All you buddhas!
We will be patient with
These scornful words.
In the troubled world of the Age of [the Decadent Dharma]
There are many fearful things.
People possessed by evil spirits
Will scorn and slander us.
But we shall wear the armor of patience
Because we trust and revere the Buddha;
And we will persevere under these difficulties
In order to teach this sutra.
We will not be attached to our bodies or lives
We only desire the highest path.
In the future we will preserve
What the Buddha has entrusted us with.
The Bhagavat himself must know
That the erring monks in the troubled world
Will not understand the Dharma
Taught by the Buddha through skillful means,
According to what is appropriate to sentient beings.
They will utter evil words with angry countenances,
And they will repeatedly expel us,
And keep us away from the monasteries and stupas.
There will be many evils such as this.
We will all endure in these matters
Because we remember the Buddha’s decree.
If there are any people seeking this Dharma
In villages or cities, we will all go there
And teach the Dharma entrusted to us by the Buddha.
Because we are the Bhagavat’s ambassadors,
Wherever we go we have nothing to fear.
We will skillfully teach the Dharma.
We entreat you, O Buddha, to be at ease.
191The Lotus Sutra
In the presence of the Bhagavat,
And all of the buddhas who have come
From the ten directions,
We make this declaration.
O Buddha! You know our intentions!
37aChapter XIV
Ease in Practice
Thereupon the Prince of the Dharma, Bodhisattva Mahasattva Mañjusri
addressed the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! These bodhisattvas are very rare.
In respectful obedience to the Buddha they have made this great vow: ‘In the
troubled world to come, we will preserve, recite, and teach this Lotus Sutra!’
“O Bhagavat! How can these bodhisattva mahasattvas teach this sutra
in the troubled world to come?”
The Buddha addressed Mañjusri, saying: “If the bodhisattva mahasattvas
want to teach this sutra in the troubled world to come, they should abide in
the four kinds of practices. The first is to establish the sphere of their bodhisattva practice and the sphere of their relationships and thereupon expound
this sutra for the sake of sentient beings.
“O Mañjusri! What is the sphere of the practice of the bodhisattva
mahasattva? If a bodhisattva mahasattva abides in the stage of perseverance,
is gentle, tranquil, nonviolent, and unafraid; and furthermore if he remains
unmoved with regard to existent things and perceives them in their true aspect,
and neither acts nor discriminates, this is called the sphere of the practice of
the bodhisattva mahasattva.
“What is the sphere of the relationships of the bodhisattva mahasattva?
The bodhisattva mahasattva should not consort with kings, princes, ministers, and chief officials. He should not consort with heretics, brahmans, Jains,
and others, or with worldly writers, critics of poetry, materialists, or extreme
materialists. Nor should he become acquainted with pranksters, boxers,
wrestlers, clowns, and various jugglers, nor with outcastes and people who
raise boars, sheep, chickens, and dogs, nor with hunters, fishermen, and those
with evil conduct. A bodhisattva should teach such people the Dharma if
they come to him, but expect nothing.
“Nor should a bodhisattva consort with monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen who seek the sravaka vehicle. Nor should he greet them. The bodhisattva should avoid their company in chambers, on roads, or while in lecture
37bThe Lotus Sutra
halls, and not remain with them. If they come, teach them the Dharma according to their capacities, but expect nothing!
“Moreover, O Mañjusri! The bodhisattva mahasattva should expound the
teaching without any thought of desire for, or wish to see, a woman’s body.
“If a bodhisattva enters someone else’s home he should not talk to young
girls, maidens, and widows. A bodhisattva should also not approach the five
kinds of impotent men nor be intimate with them. He should not enter someone else’s home alone; and if for any reason he should enter it alone a bodhisattva should do nothing but singlemindedly contemplate the Buddha.
“If he should teach the Dharma to women he should not show his teeth
when smiling nor reveal his chest. A bodhisattva should not be intimate with
them even for the sake of the Dharma. How much less for other things!
“A bodhisattva should take no pleasure in keeping young disciples, sra-
ma?eras, or young boys. Nor should he take pleasure in having the same
teacher as them. He should always take pleasure in meditation and, in a quiet
place, practice to control his mind. O Mañjusri! This is what is known as the
first sphere of relationships.
“Furthermore, the bodhisattva mahasattvas perceive the emptiness of
all dharmas in their true aspect. All things are unerring, unmoving, nonreturning, irreversible, and like empty space which lacks substance. They are
beyond all language. They are not produced, nor do they emerge, nor do they
arise. They do not have any name or mark, and in reality they have no substance. They are immeasurable, limitless, without obstacles or obstructions.
They exist only through dependent origination, arising through error. That
is why I teach the permanent joy of perceiving the aspects of all existent
things in this way. This is what is known as the second sphere of relationships of a bodhisattva mahasattva.”
At that time the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate upon the meaning of
this further, spoke these verses:
If, in the troubled world to come,
A bodhisattva with a fearless mind
Wants to teach this sutra,
He should enter the sphere
Of the bodhisattva practice
And the sphere of relationships.
194Chapter XIV
He should always stay away from kings,
Princes, ministers, chief officials,
Dangerous pranksters, outcastes,
Heretics, and brahmans.
He should not consort
With excessively proud scholars,
Who are attached to scriptures of the inferior vehicle
Contained in the three baskets (Tripi?aka);
Nor with monks who violate the precepts,
With those who call themselves arhats,
Nor with nuns who like to joke and laugh.
He should not become acquainted with laywomen
Who are attached to the desires of the five senses,
And seek nirvana in their present lives.
If these people come to the bodhisattva
With good intentions
In order to hear about the buddha path,
The bodhisattva should then fearlessly
Teach them the Dharma
Without any expectations.
A bodhisattva should not
Become intimately acquainted
With widows, maidens,
Or impotent men.
Nor should he consort
With slaughterers, butchers, hunters,
Or fishermen who kill for profit.
He should not consort
With people such as those
Who make a living
From selling meat
Or from pandering prostitutes.
He should never become acquainted
With dangerous wrestlers,
Or the varieties of jugglers or courtesans.
37cThe Lotus Sutra
He should not teach the Dharma
To a woman alone in a quiet place.
When he teaches the Dharma
He should not joke or laugh.
If he enters a village to beg for food
He should be accompanied by a monk.
If there is no monk he should
Singlemindedly contemplate the Buddha.
This is what is known as
The sphere of the bodhisattva practice
And the sphere of relationships.
Within these two spheres
He can teach at ease.
He should not practice
The superior, mediocre, or inferior teachings,
The conditioned and the unconditioned,
Or the teaching of the real and the unreal.
Nor should he discriminate
Between men and women.
He should not acquire, comprehend,
Or perceive any phenomenon.
This is what is known
As the sphere of the
Bodhisattva practice.
All dharmas are empty and without substance,
Impermanent, without origination or cessation.
This is known as the sphere
Of the relationships of the wise.
Through the error of discrimination
One sees all existent things
As existing or nonexisting,
Real or unreal,
Produced or unproduced.
Being in a quiet place, the bodhisattva
Carries out practices to control his mind
196Chapter XIV
And remains as firm and unmoved
As Mount Sumeru.
He should regard all dharmas
As being without substance,
Like empty space
Which has no firmness.
All dharmas are neither produced
Nor do they emerge;
They are immovable, nonreturning,
And always remain in their single character.
This is known as the sphere of relationships.
Any monk after my parinirva?a
Who enters the sphere of practice
And the sphere of relationships
Will not be disheartened
When he teaches this sutra.
A bodhisattva, at proper times,
Should enter a quiet chamber
And contemplate all dharmas
With correct thoughts,
According to the meaning.
Arising from meditation he should reveal
And expound this sutra
To kings, princes, ministers, and brahmans.
Then his mind will be at ease and unafraid.
O Mañjusri!
This is the bodhisattva
Who firmly abides in the Dharma from the beginning
And in the world to come will be able
To teach the Lotus Sutra.
“Furthermore, O Mañjusri, after the Tathagata’s parinirva?a, anyone
who wants to teach this sutra in the Age of the Decadent Dharma should
abide in ease of practice. When he expounds or recites this sutra he should
not take pleasure in talking about the faults of people or of the sutra. Nor
38aThe Lotus Sutra
should he slander other expounders of the Dharma or talk of the good and
bad, strong and weak points of others.
“As for the sravakas, a bodhisattva should not name them and point out
their faults, nor name them and praise their virtues. Moreover, he should not
feel any hatred; because if he skillfully practices ease of mind in this way,
those who listen to him will not oppose his intentions. If he is asked difficult questions, he should not answer using the teaching of the inferior vehicle. He should take his explanation only from the Mahayana, which will
enable them to attain omniscience.”
At that time the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate the meaning of this further, spoke these verses:
The bodhisattva should always willingly
Teach the Dharma at ease,
Establishing his seat in a pure place.
He should anoint his body with oil
To cleanse himself of dirt,
And put on new, clean clothing.
Both his outer garments and undergarments being pure,
Sitting comfortably on the Dharma seat,
He should teach according to the questions.
If there are any monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen,
Or kings, princes, subjects, officials, and commoners,
Using subtle ideas he should teach them
With a composed countenance.
If they have difficult questions
He should answer in accordance with the meaning,
Expounding and illuminating it
With various explanations and illustrations.
Through these skillful means
He should awaken the thought of
Enlightenment in them all,
Gradually benefiting them,
And causing them to enter the buddha path.
Ridding them of idle minds
198Chapter XIV
And lazy thoughts,
As well as anxieties,
He should compassionately
Teach the Dharma.
He should continuously expound
The teaching of the highest path
Both day and night, using various explanations
And incalculable illustrations.
Revealing this to sentient beings
He will cause them all to rejoice.
He should not expect to receive any clothing,
Bedding, food and drink, or medicine.
He should only singlemindedly think
Of teaching the Dharma,
Gain mastery of the buddha path,
And enable sentient beings also to attain it.
It is exactly this kind of offering
That brings great benefit and ease.
After my parinirva?a if there is any monk
Who is able to explain the Lotus Sutra,
His mind will be free from the obstructions of
Jealousy, anger, and anxiety.
He will also be without sorrows
And no one will slander him.
He will not be afraid of being
Attacked with swords and sticks;
And he will not be expelled from the sangha,
Because he abides in perseverance.
The wise skillfully compose
Their minds in this way
And can abide in ease,
As I have described above.
One would not be able to fully
Describe the qualities of such a person
Through calculations and illustrations,
38bThe Lotus Sutra
Though they lasted for
Thousands of myriads of ko?is of kalpas.
“Furthermore, O Mañjusri, in the future when the Dharma becomes
extinct, any bodhisattva mahasattva who preserves and recites this sutra will
not feel jealous or be deceitful, nor will he insult those who study the buddha
path by pointing out their good qualities or their deficiencies.
“If there are any monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen who are seeking
the sravaka vehicle, the pratyekabuddha vehicle, or the bodhisattva path, a
bodhisattva will not worry them, causing them to have doubts by saying:
You are very far away from the path and will never be able to attain
omniscience. Why is this? Because you are negligent and idle in the
path.
“Moreover, a bodhisattva also should not devise hollow sophistries concerning the teachings and argue about them. In him the thought of great compassion for all sentient beings should awaken, together with the thought that
all Tathagatas are compassionate fathers and that all bodhisattvas are great
teachers. He should always deeply respect and pay homage to all of the great
bodhisattvas in the ten directions. He should teach the Dharma equally to all
sentient beings in accordance with the Dharma, explaining neither too much
nor too little. Nor should he teach too much even to those who are deeply
enthusiastic about hearing the Dharma.
“O Mañjusri! In the future world, when the Dharma is to be extinguished,
this bodhisattva mahasattva, having perfected the third sphere of ease in
practice, will not be perplexed when he teaches this Dharma. He will become
acquainted with good fellow students who will recite this sutra together. He
will also acquire a great following who come to hear his teaching, preserve
it after hearing it, recite it after preserving it, teach it after reciting it, copy
it after teaching it, and enable others to copy, respect, honor, praise, and pay
homage to the [Lotus] Sutra.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
If anyone wants to teach this sutra,
He should get rid of jealousy, anger,
200Chapter XIV
Pride, flattery, deceitfulness, and falsity.
He should always practice honest conduct.
He should not slander others
Or make up fallacies about the Dharma.
Nor should he cause others to be doubtful by saying:
You will not become a buddha.
This heir of the Buddha who teaches the Dharma
Should always be gentle, patient,
And compassionate to all.
He should never have lazy thoughts.
He should respect the great bodhisattvas
In the ten directions who practice the path
Out of their compassion for sentient beings,
And think that they are his great teachers.
He should think that all the Buddha
Bhagavats are the most excellent fathers.
Destroying arrogance, he should teach
The Dharma without obstructions.
The third sphere of the teaching
Of ease in practice is like this.
The wise should preserve it.
Those who practice wholeheartedly and at ease
Will be honored by innumerable sentient beings.
“Furthermore, O Mañjusri, in the future world when the Dharma is to
be extinguished, any bodhisattva mahasattva who preserves this Lotus Sutra
will awaken the thought of great kindness toward lay Buddhists and renunciants and also awaken the thought of great compassion toward non-bodhisattvas. He should think:
People like these have really missed the Tathagata’s teaching of the
Dharma according to their capacities through skillful means. They do
not hear, know, or realize it. They do not ask, believe, or understand.
Those people do not even ask questions about this sutra, believe it, or
understand it. When I attain highest, complete enlightenment, wherever
38cThe Lotus Sutra
I am, I will lead them and enable them to abide in this teaching through
my transcendent powers and power of wisdom.
“O Mañjusri! After the Tathagata’s parinirva?a, this bodhisattva
mahasattva, who has perfected the fourth sphere of the teaching of ease in
practice, will be faultless when he teaches this Dharma. He will always be
paid homage to, respected, honored, and praised by monks, nuns, laymen,
laywomen, kings, princes, ministers, commoners, brahmans, and householders. The devas in the sky will always accompany him in order to hear
the Dharma. If he is in a village, city, secluded spot, or forest and the people want to come and ask difficult questions, the devas will protect him both
day and night, always for the sake of the Dharma, and he will cause all of
those who listen to him to rejoice. Why is this? Because this sutra is preserved through the transcendent powers of all the buddhas of the past, present, and future.
“O Mañjusri! Even the title of this Lotus Sutra cannot be heard in incalculable lands. How much more is it unable to be seen, accepted, preserved,
and recited!
“O Mañjusri! Suppose a very powerful noble emperor wanted to subdue other countries with his might, but the lesser kings would not obey his
command. In such a case the noble emperor gathers an army together to overcome them. He recognizes the soldiers who have committed brave deeds in
war and, greatly rejoicing, he bestows boons according to their merit, such
as estates, villages, cities, garments, ornaments, various treasures, gold, silver, lapis lazuli, mother-of-pearl, agate, coral, amber, elephants, horses, chariots, servants, and subjects, but he never gives them the precious jewel in
his topknot. Why is this? Because only the noble emperor has this precious
jewel in his topknot. If the emperor gives it away his attendants would certainly be very surprised and mistrustful.
“O Mañjusri! The Tathagata is exactly like this. He has attained the land
of the Dharma through his powers of concentration and wisdom. Thus he
has become the king of the triple world. Since the mara kings will not obey
him, the wise and noble generals of the Tathagata come to do battle with
them. The Tathagata rejoices at the meritorious ones and teaches various
sutras to the fourfold assembly, gladdening them. He bestows upon them the
39aChapter XIV
property of all the teachings about concentrations, liberations, faculties without corruption, and powers. He also bestows upon them the city of nirvana.
Saying that they have attained nirvana, he leads their minds onward and gladdens them all. And yet he does not teach them the Lotus Sutra.
“O Mañjusri! It is just as if the noble emperor finally gives the jewel
that has been long concealed in his topknot. Although he perceived the great
merit of those soldiers and was deeply pleased, he did not rashly give them
the marvelous jewel. The Tathagata is also exactly like this. Since he is the
great King of the Dharma in the triple world he inspires all the sentient beings
through the Dharma. When he sees the wise and noble soldiers who have
done battle with the mara of the five aggregates, the mara of desires, and
the mara of death, who have great merit in battle, and have extinguished the
three poisons, left the triple world, and broken out of Mara’s net, he then
rejoices greatly. He now teaches the Lotus Sutra, which is treated with hostility by the entire world and is difficult to believe in, and which he has never
taught before, and enables sentient beings to attain omniscience.
“O Mañjusri! This Lotus Sutra is the ultimate teaching of all the Tatha-
gatas, the most profound among all the teachings, and conferred at the very
end. It was in the same way that the very powerful and noble emperor gave
the jewel after having preserved it for a long time.
“O Mañjusri! This Lotus Sutra is the secret treasure house of all the
Buddha Tathagatas, and the foremost among all the sutras. The Buddha has
preserved it for a long time and he has not taught it indiscriminately. Now,
for the first time he teaches it.”
At that time the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
Always practice patience
And be compassionate toward all,
Since only then can one expound
A sutra praised by the Buddha!
In the future those who preserve this sutra
Should be compassionate and kind toward
Lay Buddhists, renunciants, and non-bodhisattvas,
Saying:
203The Lotus Sutra
Those who have not heard this sutra
Or who do not believe in it
Have consequently lost a great opportunity.
When I attain the buddha path
I will expound this teaching
Through various skillful means
And enable them to abide in it.
Suppose there was a powerful, noble emperor
Who bestows upon those soldiers meritorious in battle
Various gifts of elephants, horses, chariots, conveyances,
Ornaments, estates, villages, cities, garments,
Various treasures, servants, and wealth.
He gives these gifts with joy.
If there is anyone who has been brave
And has performed difficult deeds,
The noble emperor gives
The precious jewel in his topknot.
The Tathagata is exactly like this.
He is the emperor of all the teachings.
Out of his great compassion,
And through his treasury of wisdom
And great power of patience,
He inspires the world according to the Dharma.
Seeing all the sentient beings suffering,
Seeking liberation
And doing battle with the maras,
He explains various teachings for the beings
And teaches various sutras
With his great skillful means.
Knowing that the sentient beings have
Finally attained the power to understand,
He teaches this Lotus Sutra only at the very end,
Just like the noble emperor
Who gave the jewel in his topknot.
39bChapter XIV
This sutra is the utmost,
Superior to all the sutras.
I have constantly preserved it
And have not revealed it indiscriminately.
Now is the right time to teach it to you.
After my parinirva?a
Those seeking the buddha path,
Who want to attain ease and expound this sutra,
Should become familiar with these four spheres
Of the teaching concerning ease in practice.
Those who recite this sutra will always
Be free from anxiety and illness,
And will have a noble countenance.
They will not be born into poverty,
Lowliness or ugliness.
Sentient beings will want to meet them
Just as they long to meet a wise seer,
And all of the devaputras will serve them.
Sticks and swords cannot hurt them,
And poison cannot harm them.
If people slander them
Those slanderers’ mouths will be sealed up.
They will travel fearlessly
Like a lion king, and
The light of their wisdom
Will illuminate just like the sun.
If they dream they see only subtle things.
They see the Tathagatas seated on lion seats,
Teaching the Dharma to the assembly
Of monks surrounding them.
They see nagas and asuras,
As numerous as the sands of the Ganges River,
Honoring the Tathagatas
With their palms pressed together.
Revealing themselves,
205The Lotus Sutra
They teach the Dharma to these beings.
They also see the buddhas, with golden bodies,
Emitting immeasurable rays of light
Which illuminate universally,
And expounding various teachings
With beautiful voices like Brahma’s.
To the fourfold assembly
The Buddha teaches the highest Dharma.
Revealing themselves among them,
They praise the Buddha
With palms pressed together.
Hearing the Dharma they rejoice
And pay homage to the Buddha.
They attain the power of recollection
And achieve the wisdom of nonretrogression.
The Buddha, knowing their minds,
And that they have deeply entered the buddha path,
Gives them a prediction of the highest,
Complete enlightenment, saying:
O son of a virtuous family!
In the future you will attain immeasurable
Wisdom and the great path of the Buddha.
Your land will be pure and vast,
Beyond all comparison.
The fourfold assembly will also be there
Listening to the Dharma with their palms
Pressed together.
They who recite this sutra also see themselves
In mountain forests, practicing excellent teachings,
Experiencing the real aspect,
Deeply entering into concentration,
And looking at the buddhas in the ten directions,
All of whom have golden bodies
Adorned with a hundred auspicious marks.
39cChapter XIV
They will always have such pleasant dreams
And, hearing the Dharma taught,
They will teach it to others.
They will also dream about becoming
The king of a realm who abandons his palace
And retinue, and the highly pleasing
Desires of the five senses,
Approaches the terrace of enlightenment,
Sits on the lion seat under the bodhi tree,
Attains the wisdom of all the buddhas
After seeking the path for seven days,
And who, arising, turns the wheel of the Dharma
After having attained the highest path.
They will teach the Dharma to the fourfold assembly
For thousands of myriads of ko?is of kalpas.
Explaining the true and incorruptible Dharma,
They will save innumerable sentient beings.
Later they will enter nirvana
Just as smoke dies away
When the flame of a candle is extinguished.
If anyone in the troubled world to come
Teaches this highest Dharma
They will attain great benefits
Like the merits mentioned above.
207Chapter XV
Bodhisattvas Emerging
from the Earth
At that time the bodhisattva mahasattvas, who had arrived from other lands
and whose number exceeded that of the sands of eight Ganges Rivers, stood
up in the great assembly, bowed with their palms pressed together, and then
spoke to the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! If you give us permission to diligently strive to preserve, recite, copy and pay homage to this [Lotus] Sutra
after the parinirva?a of the Buddha in this saha world, then we will extensively teach it in this land.”
Then the Buddha addressed the assembly of bodhisattva mahasattvas,
saying: “Enough, O sons of a virtuous family! There is no need for you to
preserve this sutra. Why is this? In my saha world there are bodhisattva
mahasattvas, equal to the sands of sixty thousand Ganges Rivers in number;
and each of these bodhisattvas, in turn, has a retinue equal to the sands of
sixty thousand Ganges Rivers. After my parinirva?a they can preserve, recite,
and extensively teach this sutra.”
When the Buddha said this all the lands of the great manifold cosmos
in the saha world quaked and the earth split. From out of this crevice there
simultaneously appeared incalculable thousands of myriads of ko?is of bodhisattva mahasattvas. All of these bodhisattvas had golden bodies endowed
with the thirty-two marks and radiating immeasurable rays of light. They
had all previously been living in the space under the earth of the saha world.
Having heard the sound of Sakyamuni’s teaching, all of these bodhisattvas
emerged from below.
Each of those bodhisattvas presided over a great assembly and each led
a retinue equal to the sands of sixty thousand Ganges Rivers in number. How
much more numerous were the bodhisattvas who emerged leading retinues
equal in number to the sands of fifty thousand, forty thousand, thirty thousand, twenty thousand, or ten thousand Ganges Rivers! How much more
numerous were the bodhisattvas who emerged leading retinues even equal
40aThe Lotus Sutra
to the sands of one Ganges River, half a Ganges River, a quarter of a Ganges
River, or even just one thousandth of a myriad of a ko?i of a nayuta of the
sands of a Ganges River! How many more retinues were there numbering
thousands of myriads of ko?is of nayutas! How many more retinues were
there numbering myriads of ko?is! How many more were those numbering
ten million, one million, or even ten thousand! How many more were those
numbering one thousand, one hundred, or even ten! How much more numerous were bodhisattvas leading disciples numbering five, four, three, two, or
even one! And how many more bodhisattvas were there who had eagerly
practiced alone and far from the worldly life! The number of such bodhisattvas as these is incalculable and limitless, beyond all calculation and
metaphor.
Having emerged from the earth, each of these bodhisattvas approached
the Tathagatas Prabhutaratna and Sakyamuni, still seated in the beautiful
seven-jeweled stupa in the air. Going up to them, they bowed until their foreheads touched the feet of both Bhagavats. Then, having bowed to the other
buddhas, each sitting on a lion seat under the jeweled trees, they circumambulated them to the right three times, honoring them with their palms pressed
together. Having praised them with various bodhisattva eulogies, they withdrew to one side and joyfully gazed at the two Bhagavats. All these bodhisattva mahasattvas, having emerged from the earth, praised the buddhas with
various bodhisattva eulogies. While they did, fifty intermediate kalpas passed.
During this time the Buddha Sakyamuni sat in silence; and the fourfold
assemblies were also silent while the fifty intermediate kalpas passed. Because
of the Buddha’s transcendent powers, the great assemblies believed that the
time that had passed was only half a day. Then, through the transcendent
powers of the Buddha, the fourfold assemblies also saw the bodhisattvas
filling the air throughout immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads
of ko?is of lands.
There were four leaders among those bodhisattvas gathered there. They
were called Visi??acaritra, Anantacaritra, Visuddhacaritra, and Suprati??hitacaritra. These four bodhisattvas were the foremost leaders in the assembly.
At the head of the great assembly, they each pressed their palms together,
gazed at Sakyamuni Buddha, and inquired of him, saying: “O Bhagavat! Are
you without illness or pain? Are you at ease in practice or not? Do those who
210Chapter XV
should be saved accept your teaching easily or not? Do they not make you
weary, O Bhagavat?”
Thereupon the four great bodhisattvas spoke these verses:
O Bhagavat! Are you at ease?
Are you without illness or pain?
Are you fatigued with leading
And inspiring sentient beings?
Do the sentient beings accept
Your guidance easily or not?
Do they not tire the Bhagavat?
At that time the Bhagavat spoke to the great assembly of bodhisattvas,
saying: “It is exactly like this, O sons of a virtuous family! It is exactly so!
The Tathagata is at ease and without illness or pain. It is easy to save sentient
beings, and I am not fatigued. Why is this? Because sentient beings have continually received my guidance throughout many lives, and they have also
planted roots of good merit by revering and honoring the buddhas of the past.
“When these sentient beings first saw me and heard my teaching, all,
except for those who had previously practiced and studied the inferior vehicle, immediately believed and accepted it and entered the Tathagata’s wisdom. Now I enable even such people as these to listen to this sutra and enter
the Buddha’s wisdom.”
Then the great bodhisattvas spoke these verses:
Splendid, splendid!
O Bhagavat, Great Hero!
All the sentient beings
Can easily be brought to the path.
They can ask about
The profound wisdom of the buddhas.
Hearing about it, they trust and accept it.
We rejoice about this.
At that time the Bhagavat praised the foremost of the great bodhisattvas,
saying: “Splendid, splendid, O sons of virtuous family! Thoughts of joy
regarding the Tathagata have awakened in you.”
40bThe Lotus Sutra
Then Bodhisattva Maitreya and the assembly of bodhisattvas equal in
number to the sands of eight thousand Ganges Rivers thought this:
Looking far into the past, we have never seen or heard of such an
assembly of great bodhisattva mahasattvas, who have now emerged
from the earth and are standing before the Bhagavat with their palms
pressed together in reverence, asking the Tathagata questions.
Then Bodhisattva Mahasattva Maitreya, knowing the minds of the bodhisattvas whose number was equal to the sands of eight thousand Ganges
Rivers, and wanting to clear up their confusion, faced the Buddha with the
palms of his hands pressed together and addressed him in verse, saying:
We have never seen such a great assembly
Of incalculable thousands of myriads of ko?is
Of bodhisattvas before.
We entreat you, O Best of Humans,
To explain it to us!
Where have they come from?
For what reason have they gathered here?
They look magnificent
And have great transcendent powers.
Their wisdom is beyond our comprehension.
They are firm in their resolve,
Have the power of great perseverance,
And an appearance that sentient beings
Desire to see.
Where have they come from?
Each of these bodhisattvas is leading
A retinue whose number is incalculable,
Like the sands of the Ganges River.
Some great bodhisattvas are leading retinues
Equal in number to the sands
Of sixty thousand Ganges Rivers.
Great are the assemblies,
Singlemindedly seeking the buddha path.
40cChapter XV
These great leaders, equal in number
To the sands of sixty thousand Ganges Rivers,
Have come all together to pay homage to the Buddha
And preserve this sutra.
The number of bodhisattvas leading retinues
Equal in number to the sands of fifty thousand
Ganges Rivers is even greater;
And the number of bodhisattvas who lead retinues
Equal in number to the sands of forty thousand,
Thirty thousand, twenty thousand, ten thousand,
One thousand, one hundred, even one, one half,
One third, one fourth, one myriadth of a ko?i
Of the sands of a Ganges River exceeds even these.
There are disciples who number
Thousands of myriads of nayutas,
Myriads of ko?is, or even half a ko?i.
Their numbers also exceed that mentioned above.
There are also disciples in retinues
Of one million, ten thousand,
One thousand, one hundred, fifty, ten,
Even three, two, or one in number.
There are also great bodhisattvas
Who have come without retinues,
Desiring to be in solitude.
The number of those
Who have come before the Buddha
Is far beyond any calculation.
If anyone counted the number of such a great assembly
With bamboo counting-sticks, he would not finish
Even after exhausting kalpas greater in number
Than the sands of the Ganges River.
Who has taught the Dharma
To this assembly of bodhisattvas,
Endowed with great dignity and perseverance?
Who has inspired and perfected them?
213The Lotus Sutra
Under whom did the thought of enlightenment
First awaken in them?
Which Buddha-Dharma do they praise?
Whose sutra have they preserved and practiced?
And which buddha path have they followed?
Such bodhisattvas as these,
Endowed with transcendent powers
And the power of great wisdom,
Have all emerged out of the earth,
Which quaked in the four directions
And split asunder.
O Bhagavat! We have never seen
Such a thing before.
We entreat you to tell us the name
Of the land from where they have come.
We have been constantly traveling
In various regions,
Nevertheless we have never seen
Such a thing before.
We do not know even a single person
In this assembly.
All of a sudden
They have emerged from the earth.
We entreat you to explain the reason why.
All of the immeasurable hundreds of thousands
Of ko?is of bodhisattvas in this great assembly
Now wish to know about this matter.
There must be underlying causes for this,
To explain all of these bodhisattvas.
O Bhagavat, He of Immeasurable Qualities!
We entreat you to clear up
The confusion of the assembly!
Thereupon the buddhas who were the magically created forms of Sakyamuni Buddha arrived from other incalculable thousands of myriads of ko?is
41aChapter XV
of lands and sat cross-legged on lion seats under the jeweled trees in the eight
directions. Each attendant of these buddhas had seen the great assembly of
bodhisattvas as they emerged from out of the earth and floated in midair in
the four directions of the great manifold cosmos. Each of them addressed
his Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! Where has this great assembly of immeasurable, limitless, incalculable bodhisattvas come from?”
Then the buddhas answered their attendants, saying: “O sons of a virtuous family! Wait a moment! There is a bodhisattva mahasattva called
Maitreya, who has received a prediction from the Buddha Sakyamuni that
he will become a buddha after Sakyamuni in the future. Since he has already
asked about this, the Buddha will now answer him. You shall be able to hear
the reason yourselves.”
Then the Buddha Sakyamuni addressed Bodhisattva Maitreya, saying:
“Splendid, splendid, O Ajita! You have asked the Buddha an important question. You should all singlemindedly don the armor of perseverance and be
of firm will. The Tathagata now wants to reveal the wisdom of the buddhas,
the inherent transcendent powers of the buddhas, the lionlike dignified power
of the buddhas, the majestic and mighty power of the buddhas.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
You should be persistent
And wholeheartedly attentive,
For I want to explain it to you.
Do not have any doubts, for the wisdom
Of the Buddha is difficult to comprehend!
You should now awaken the power of faith,
And with perseverance abide in the good.
Now you will all be able to hear
What you have never heard before.
I will now put you at ease.
Have no doubts or fear!
The Buddha never speaks false words.
His wisdom is immeasurable.
The foremost Dharma that he has attained
215The Lotus Sutra
Is profound and difficult to explain.
I will now expound this difficult teaching,
So you should listen wholeheartedly.
Then the Bhagavat, after speaking these verses, addressed Bodhisattva
Maitreya, saying: “I will now proclaim it to all of you in this assembly. O
Ajita! All of you have never seen these immeasurable, innumerable, incalculable great bodhisattva mahasattvas who have emerged from out of the
earth. Having attained highest, complete enlightenment in this saha world,
I led, inspired, and instructed these bodhisattvas, restrained their thoughts,
and caused the thought of the path to awaken in them. When these bodhisattvas lived in the space under the earth of this saha world, they recited various sutras, became well versed in them, and contemplated, analyzed, and
correctly remembered them.
“O Ajita! All these sons of a virtuous family did not wish to be among
the multitude where there is always much discussion. They always wanted
to be in quiet places. They diligently strove without resting or relying upon
devas or humans. They always desired the profound wisdom without obstructions; they always wanted the Dharma of the buddhas. They strove wholeheartedly in seeking the highest wisdom.”
At that time the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
O Ajita! You should know
That all of these great bodhisattvas
Have practiced the wisdom of the Buddha
For innumerable kalpas.
They have all been inspired by me,
And the thought of the great path
Has awakened in them.
They are my heirs.
Abiding in this world,
They always cultivated ascetic practices,
Wishing to be in quiet places.
Rejecting the clamor of the multitude,
They did not want to have much discussion.
41bChapter XV
All my heirs such as these
Constantly practiced my teaching
With vigor, day and night.
In order to seek the buddha path
They lived in the space
Under the earth of this saha world.
They were firm in recollection,
And they always diligently sought wisdom.
Explaining various subtle teachings
Their minds were free from fear.
Sitting under the bodhi tree
In the city of Gaya,
I attained highest, complete enlightenment,
And turned the wheel of the highest Dharma.
I then led and inspired them
So that the thought of the path
Awakened in them for the first time.
All of them are now at the stage of nonretrogression,
And will certainly become buddhas with no residue.
I now teach the truth.
You should wholeheartedly believe that
From long, long ago I have been
Leading and inspiring all these bodhisattvas.
Then Bodhisattva Mahasattva Maitreya and the innumerable other bodhisattvas became doubtful and confused concerning this unprecedented experience. They thought this:
How is it possible in such a short time for the Bhagavat to have inspired
such an immeasurable, limitless, incalculable number of great bodhisattvas, enabling them to abide in highest, complete enlightenment?
Immediately they addressed the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! When
the Tathagata was a prince he left the palace of the Sakyas, sat on the terrace of enlightenment which is not far from the city of Gaya, and attained
highest, complete enlightenment. Since then more than forty years have
41cThe Lotus Sutra
passed. How is it possible, O Bhagavat, for you to have done such great
buddha acts in such a short period of time? Is it through the might of the
Buddha and through the Buddha’s qualities that you have inspired such an
assembly of incalculable great bodhisattvas to achieve highest, complete
enlightenment?
“O Bhagavat! Even if someone counted the number of the great bodhisattvas for thousands of myriads of ko?is of kalpas they would not be able
to finish. There would be no end. From long ago these bodhisattvas have
been planting roots of good merit in the presence of immeasurable, limitless
buddhas. They have perfected the bodhisattva path and have always practiced the pure path of discipline and integrity. It is, O Bhagavat, difficult to
believe such things in this world.
“Suppose a handsome man with dark hair, twenty-five years of age,
were to point to a hundred-year-old man and say:
He is my son.
“And the one-hundred-year-old man points to the young fellow and says:
He is my father and he raised me!
“This would be difficult to believe; and what the Buddha has now taught
is exactly like this. It has not, in fact, been so long since the Buddha attained
the path. Yet for the sake of the buddha path this great assembly of bodhisattvas has been diligently striving for innumerable thousands of myriads of
ko?is of kalpas. They have skillfully entered, abided in, and emerged from
immeasurable thousands of myriads of ko?is of samadhis. They have attained
great transcendent powers and practiced the pure path of discipline and
integrity for a long time. They have gradually and ably practiced wholesome
teachings and are skilled at discussions. They are jewels among humans and
a great rarity in the entire world.
“Today the Bhagavat has correctly said that after he attained the path
of the Buddha he caused the thought of enlightenment to awaken in the bodhisattvas for the first time. He then led, inspired, and instructed them to approach
highest, complete enlightenment. O Bhagavat! Although it has not been so
long since you attained buddhahood yet you have really done these great
meritorious acts.
218Chapter XV
“We believe the Buddha’s words, spoken according to our capacities,
and that what he says is never false. We are all well versed in the Buddha’s
knowledge. However, if the bodhisattvas in whom the thought of enlightenment has recently awakened hear this after the Buddha’s parinirva?a, they
will not accept it; and this will bring about conditions for erring deeds that
destroy the Dharma. That is why, O Bhagavat, we entreat you to explain it
to us and remove our doubts. Moreover, in the future, when the sons of a
virtuous family hear this, they will also be free from doubt.”
Thereupon Bodhisattva Maitreya, wanting to elaborate upon the meaning of this further, spoke these verses:
Long ago the Buddha left
The household of the Sakya clan,
And approached Gaya
Where he sat under the bodhi tree;
It has not been so long since that time.
The number of the Buddha’s heirs
Is incalculable;
From long ago they have practiced the buddha path
And attained transcendent powers and
The power of wisdom.
They have thoroughly studied
The bodhisattva path,
And are as undefiled by worldly affairs,
As the lotus blossom in the water.
They have emerged from out of the earth,
And all stood respectfully before the Bhagavats.
It is difficult to comprehend this matter,
How can we possibly believe it!
The Buddha attained the path
Only a short time ago,
Yet he has accomplished so much.
We entreat you to remove our doubts
And give a detailed explanation
According to the truth.
42aThe Lotus Sutra
Suppose there were a young man
Just twenty-five years of age
Who pointed to a one-hundred-year-old man,
Who was wrinkled and had white hair, saying:
This is my offspring.
The [old man] also says:
This is my father.
The father is young, and the son is old.
No one in the world would believe it.
The Bhagavat’s teaching is exactly like this.
He attained the path only a very short time ago,
Yet these bodhisattvas are firm in resolution
And without weak will;
They have been practicing the bodhisattva path
For immeasurable kalpas.
They are skilled at difficult discussions,
And their minds are free from fear.
They are resolute and persevering.
They are handsome and dignified,
Praised by the buddhas in the ten directions.
They are good at detailed explanations.
They did not want to be among the multitudes
For they always liked being in meditation,
And so they lived in the space under the earth
In order to seek the buddha path.
Since we heard about this from the Buddha
We have no doubts about it;
But still we entreat you, O Buddha, to expound it
And make it clear for the future.
Anyone in whom doubts awaken
And who does not believe in this sutra
Will certainly fall into the troubled states of being.
That is why we now entreat you to explain
220Chapter XV
How in such a short time
You have led and inspired
These innumerable bodhisattvas
So that the thought of enlightenment
Has awakened in them
And they abide in the stage of nonretrogression.
221Chapter XVI
The Lifespan of the Tathagata
Thereupon the Buddha addressed the bodhisattvas and the entire great assembly, saying: “O sons of a virtuous family! You should believe the true words
of the Tathagata.”
He addressed the great assembly again, saying: “You should believe the
Tathagata’s true words.”
He repeated this to them, saying: “You should believe the Tathagata’s
true words.”
Then the great assembly of bodhisattvas, headed by Maitreya, addressed
the Buddha with their palms pressed together, saying: “O Bhagavat! We
entreat you to explain it. We will accept the Buddha’s words.”
After they had spoken in this way three times, they again said: “We
entreat you to explain it. We will accept the Buddha’s words.”
Then the Bhagavat, realizing that the bodhisattvas continued to entreat
him after those three times, addressed them, saying: “Listen carefully to the
Tathagata’s secret and transcendent powers. The devas, humans, and asuras
in all the worlds all think that the present Buddha, Sakyamuni, left the palace
of the Sakyas, sat on the terrace of enlightenment not far from the city of Gaya,
and attained highest, complete enlightenment. However, O sons of a virtuous
family, immeasurable, limitless, hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of
nayutas of kalpas have passed since I actually attained buddhahood.
“Suppose there were a man who ground five hundreds of thousands myriads of ko?is of nayutas of incalculable great manifold cosmos into particles.
While passing through five hundred thousands of myriads of ko?is of nayutas
of incalculable lands to the east, he dropped just a single particle; and in this
way he continued to drop the particles as he went toward the east, until they
were all gone.
“O sons of a virtuous family! What do you think about this? Can all of
these worlds be calculated or not? Can one imagine all of these worlds, calculate, and know their number or not?”
42bThe Lotus Sutra
Bodhisattva Maitreya and the others together addressed the Buddha,
saying: “O Bhagavat! These worlds are immeasurable, limitless, incalculable, and beyond our powers of conception. Even all the sravakas and pratyekabuddhas, with their knowledge free from corruption, are not able to comprehend them, or know their number. Although we abide in the stage of
nonretrogression we cannot understand it. O Bhagavat! Such worlds as these
are incalculable and limitless.”
Then the Buddha addressed the assembly of the great bodhisattvas, saying: “O sons of a virtuous family! I will now explain it clearly to you. Suppose all these worlds, whether or not a particle was left in them, were reduced
to particles, and each particle represented a kalpa. The period of time since
I became a buddha would exceed this by hundreds of thousands of myriads
of ko?is of nayutas of incalculable kalpas. Since then I have constantly been
residing in the saha world, teaching the Dharma and inspiring sentient beings.
I have also been leading and benefiting sentient beings in incalculable hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of nayutas of other worlds.
“O sons of a virtuous family! During this interim I explained about the
Buddha Dipa?kara and others. Furthermore, I also said that they had entered
parinirva?a. I have explained such things through skillful means.
“O sons of a virtuous family! If any sentient being comes to me, I perceive the dullness or sharpness of his faith and other faculties with my buddhaeye. According to the way I should bring them to the path, I, myself, proclaim
different names and lifespans in various places. In each case I have also clearly
stated that I would enter parinirva?a. Through various skillful means I have
explained subtle teachings and have made the sentient beings rejoice.
“O sons of a virtuous family! To those beings whom the Tathagata perceives as taking pleasure in the inferior teachings, who have few qualities
and grave defilements, he teaches that the Buddha attained highest, complete
enlightenment after he renounced household life in his young age. However,
it has been a very long time indeed since I attained buddhahood. I give such
an explanation only to lead and inspire the sentient beings to enter the buddha
path through skillful means.
“O sons of a virtuous family! The sutras that the Tathagata has expounded
are all to save the sentient beings. Whether the Tathagata teaches about himself or others, whether he reveals his form or that of others, whether he shows
his acts or those of others, everything he says is true, never false.
42cChapter XVI
“Why is this? Because the Tathagata perceives all the marks of the triple
world as they really are: that there is no birth and death, coming or going;
that there is also no existence or extinction in the world, truth or falsehood,
sameness or difference. The Tathagata does not view the triple world as sentient beings in the triple world see it. The Tathagata perceives such things
clearly and without mistakes.
“Since sentient beings have various natures, desires, behaviors, thoughts,
and distinctions, the Tathagata, wanting to cause them to plant roots of good
merit, has explained various teachings through a variety of examples, explanations, and illustrations. He has not desisted from doing buddha acts even
for a single moment and in this way it has been an extremely long time since
I attained buddhahood. My lifespan is immeasurable and incalculable. I abide
forever without entering parinirva?a.
“O sons of a virtuous family! The lifespan that I first attained through practicing the bodhisattva path has not yet expired. It is twice as great as the number previously mentioned. Although I do not actually enter parinirva?a I proclaim that I do. It is through this skillful means that the Tathagata leads and
inspires sentient beings.
“Why is this? Because if the Buddha abides a long time in this world,
those who have few qualities do not plant roots of good merit, acquire poor
and superficial characters, are attached to the desires of the five senses, and
enter into the web of illusions and false views. If they see the Tathagata
always existing without extinction, they then become proud, self-willed, and
negligent. The thought that the Buddha is difficult to meet and that he is to
be respected cannot awaken in them. That is why the Tathagata teaches
through skillful means, saying:
O monks! You should know that the appearance of the buddhas in the
world is very difficult to encounter.
“Why is this? Because some of those with little merit may not see the
Buddha during the passage of immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of kalpas.
“For this reason I say:
O monks! It is difficult to meet the Tathagata.
43aThe Lotus Sutra
“Hearing such words, the thought that it is very difficult to meet the
Tathagata will certainly awaken in these sentient beings. Longing and yearning for the Buddha, they will plant roots of good merit. For this reason,
although the Tathagata does not really pass into extinction, he nevertheless
says he does.
“Furthermore, O sons of a virtuous family, the teaching of all the Buddha
Tathagatas is exactly like this. It is entirely true, never false, all for the sake
of saving sentient beings.
“Suppose there were an excellent doctor. He is wise, knowledgeable,
his prescriptions are effective, and he has skillfully cured a variety of diseases. This man has many sons, say ten, twenty, or even one hundred in number. For some reason, he has to go far off to another country and, while he
is away, his children, whom he has left behind, drink some poison. The poison starts to take effect and they roll on the ground in agony.
“At this moment their father returns home. Some of the children who
have taken the poison are delirious, while others are not. Seeing their father
in the distance they all rejoice greatly and kneeling respectfully address him,
saying:
It is good that you have returned safely. In our ignorance we took this
poison by mistake. We entreat you to cure and save us, and restore us
to life.
“Seeing his children suffering in this way, the father searches for beneficial herbs possessed of good color, aroma, and flavor, according to the medical manual. Blending them together after grinding and sifting, he gives the
mixture to the children and says:
This is an extremely beneficial medicine with good color, aroma, and
flavor. All of you take it! It will quickly remove your pain and you
will never be afflicted again.
“Then the children who have not become delirious see this beneficial
medicine of good color and aroma, and immediately take it. The affliction
is completely removed and they are cured. The remaining children, those
who are delirious, seeing their father coming to them, rejoice and ask him
to seek a cure for their illness. Although he offers them the medicine, they
226Chapter XVI
will not take it. Why is this? The poison has so deeply penetrated them that
they have become delirious. They do not think that the medicine with good
color and aroma is good.
“The father thinks:
These children are to be pitied. The poison has completely warped
their minds. Although they rejoiced upon seeing me and sought a cure
they will not take this beneficial medicine. I will now cause them to
take this medicine through skillful means.
“Then he says to them:
You should know that I am now old and feeble, close to death. I will
now leave this beneficial medicine here. You should take it. Do not
worry about not recovering.
“Having left these instructions he goes to another country and sends a
messenger back home to tell them: ‘Your father has already died.’ Upon hearing that their father is dead, the children become very distressed and think:
If our father had lived he would have taken pity on us and protected
us. But now, abandoning us, he has died in a distant country.
“They now consider themselves orphans having no one to rely upon.
Through constant grieving their minds become clear, and only then do they
realize that the medicine has fine color, aroma, and flavor. They immediately
take it and the poison is completely driven out. The father, hearing that all
his children have completely recovered, immediately returns and makes his
appearance.”
The Buddha then asked the bodhisattvas: “O sons of a virtuous family!
Do you think there is anyone who would say that this good doctor is guilty
of lying?”
The bodhisattvas replied: “No, we do not, O Bhagavat!”
The Buddha said: “I am just like this. Since I became a buddha, immeasurable, limitless, hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of nayutas of
incalculable kalpas have passed. Though for the sake of sentient beings, I
use skillful means and say that I will enter parinirva?a, there is no one who
could rightly say that I am guilty of falsehood.”
43bThe Lotus Sutra
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
Since I attained buddhahood,
Immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads
Of ko?is of incalculable kalpas have passed.
I have been constantly teaching the Dharma,
Through these immeasurable kalpas,
Leading and inspiring
Innumerable ko?is of sentient beings
And enabling them to enter the buddha path.
Using skillful means
I have manifested the state of nirvana
To bring sentient beings to this path;
Yet I have not actually entered nirvana,
But continually abide here expounding the Dharma.
Although I am always among these erring beings,
With my transcendent powers,
I prevent them from seeing me.
The sentient beings,
Seeing me enter perfect extinction
Earnestly revere my relics
And, filled with longing,
Yearn for me.
When the sentient beings become
Sincere, mild, and receptive,
And, wanting wholeheartedly to meet the Buddha,
Are willing to give unsparingly
Of their bodies and lives,
Then I, together with the sangha,
Will appear on Mount G?dhraku?a.
I will declare this to sentient beings:
Although I am always here without extinction,
Through the power of skillful means
I manifest extinction and nonextinction.
228Chapter XVI
If there are any sentient beings in other worlds
Who respect and believe in me,
I will also teach them the highest Dharma.
Not knowing this, you only think
That I have entered parinirva?a.
I see all sentient beings
Submerged in the ocean of suffering.
That is why, by not manifesting my form,
I cause them to yearn for me.
Then, after awakening this longing,
I appear and expound the Dharma;
Such are my transcendent powers.
For innumerable kalpas
I have constantly resided
On Mount G?dhraku?a and elsewhere.
When sentient beings see themselves
Amidst a conflagration
At the end of a kalpa,
It is in fact my tranquil land,
Always full of devas and humans.
All the gardens and palaces
Are adorned with various gems.
The jeweled trees abound with flowers and fruits,
And the sentient beings are joyful among them.
The devas beat heavenly drums
Making constant and varied music.
They rain down mandarava flowers
Upon the Buddha and the great assembly.
Although my Pure Land never decays,
The sentient beings see it as ravaged by fire
And torn with anxiety and distress;
They believe it is filled with these things.
Because of their misdeeds
These erring sentient beings do not hear
The name of the Three Treasures
43cThe Lotus Sutra
For incalculable kalpas.
But all who cultivate merit,
And are receptive and honest,
Will see me residing here,
Expounding the Dharma.
For the sake of these sentient beings
I teach that the lifespan
Of the Buddha is immeasurable.
To those who, after a long time,
Finally see the Buddha,
I teach that it is difficult to meet him.
Such is the power of my wisdom.
The light of my wisdom illuminates immeasurably
And my lifespan is of innumerable kalpas.
This has been achieved through long practice.
You wise ones, do not give in to doubt!
Banish all doubt forever!
The Buddha’s words are true, never false.
It is like the physician
Who proclaimed his own death,
Although it was untrue.
He did this to cure his delirious sons,
Through excellent skillful means;
So no one could say he really spoke falsehood.
I, also, being the father of the world,
Cure those who suffer.
To the deluded and unenlightened I say that
I have entered nirvana,
Although, in fact, I am really here.
For if they were to see me,
They would become lazy and arrogant.
Attached to the desires of the five senses,
They would fall into the troubled states of being.
Always aware of which sentient beings
Practice the path and which do not,
44aChapter XVI
I teach the Dharma in various ways,
According to their ability to be saved.
I am always thinking:
By what means can I cause sentient beings to be able to
Enter the highest path
And quickly attain the Dharma?
231Chapter XVII
Description of Merits
Thereupon, when the great assembly heard the Buddha explain that his lifespan was of such a great number of kalpas, an immeasurable, limitless, incalculable number of sentient beings were greatly benefited.
Then the Bhagavat addressed Bodhisattva Mahasattva Maitreya, saying: “O Ajita! When I explained the great length of this Tathagata’s lifespan,
sentient beings, equal to the sands of the six hundred and eighty myriads of
ko?is of nayutas of Ganges Rivers in number, gained understanding of the
truth of the nonorigination of all dharmas. Furthermore, a thousand times
this number of bodhisattva mahasattvas attained the power of recollecting
what they hear; and bodhisattva mahasattvas equal to the number of particles in one world attained unhindered eloquence. Moreover, there were bodhisattva mahasattvas equal to the particles in one world who attained the power
of tenacious memory which revolves hundreds of thousands of myriads of
ko?is of immeasurable times. There were also bodhisattva mahasattvas equal
to the number of particles in the great manifold cosmos who turned the irreversible wheel of the Dharma, and bodhisattva mahasattvas equal to the number of particles in two medium-sized manifold cosmos who turned the purified
wheel of the Dharma.
“Furthermore, there were bodhisattva mahasattvas equal to the number
of particles in one small-sized cosmos who will be able to attain highest,
complete enlightenment after eight births; bodhisattva mahasattvas equal to
the number of particles in the four fourfold continents who will attain highest, complete enlightenment after four births; bodhisattva mahasattvas equal
to the number of particles in the threefold four continents who will attain
highest, complete enlightenment after three births; bodhisattva mahasattvas
equal to the number of particles in the twofold four continents who will attain
highest, complete enlightenment after two births; and bodhisattva mahasattvas
equal to the number of particles in the four continents who will attain highest, complete enlightenment after one birth. Moreover there were sentient
233The Lotus Sutra
beings equal to the number of particles in the eightfold great manifold cosmos, in all of whom the thought of highest, complete enlightenment had
awakened.”
When the Buddha explained that these bodhisattva mahasattvas had
attained deep insight into the Dharma, mandarava and great mandarava
flowers rained down from the sky, scattering over the buddhas who were
seated on lion seats under immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads
of ko?is of jeweled trees; and they scattered over Sakyamuni Buddha and the
Tathagata Prabhutaratna, who had attained parinirva?a long ago, both of
whom were sitting on the lion seat in a seven-jeweled stupa; they also scattered over all of the great bodhisattvas and the fourfold assembly. Finely
powdered sandalwood and aloeswood incense also rained down, and heavenly drums resounded in the sky with a deep and beautiful sound. One thousand kinds of heavenly garments, draped with strings of pearl, jewels, and
wish-fulfilling gems (ma?i), rained down, filling the nine directions. Priceless incense burned in various jeweled incense holders, and its fragrance
spread spontaneously throughout the great assembly as an offering. Above
each buddha there were bodhisattvas holding banners and umbrellas that
extended upward to the Brahma world. These bodhisattvas praised the buddhas
by singing immeasurable verses with beautiful voices.
Then Bodhisattva Maitreya rose from his seat, leaving his right shoulder bared, faced the Buddha with the palms of his hands pressed together,
and spoke these verses:
The Buddha has taught this marvelous Dharma
That we have never heard before.
The Bhagavat has great powers
And his lifespan is immeasurable.
Innumerable heirs of the Buddha
Attained the benefit of the Dharma
After hearing the Bhagavat’s explanation,
And became completely filled with joy.
Some attained the stage of nonretrogression,
And others the power of recollection.
Some attained unhindered eloquence,
And others the power of tenacious memory
44bChapter XVII
Which revolves many ko?is of times.
There were also bodhisattvas,
Equal to the number of particles
In the great cosmos,
Who each turned the irreversible wheel
Of the Dharma.
There were also bodhisattvas,
Equal to the number of particles
In a medium cosmos,
Who each turned the purified
Wheel of the Dharma.
There were also bodhisattvas,
Equal to the number of particles
In a small cosmos,
Who after eight births
Will complete the buddha path.
There were also bodhisattvas,
Equal to four times, three times,
And two times the number of particles
In the four continents,
Who after four, three, and two births
Will attain buddhahood.
There were also bodhisattvas,
Equal to the number of particles
In the four continents,
Who will obtain omniscience
After one birth;
And sentient beings, having heard about
The great length of the Buddha’s lifespan,
Attained immeasurable results
That were pure and without corruption.
There were also sentient beings,
Equal to the number of particles
In the eight worlds,
In whom, having heard about the lifespan of the Buddha,
235The Lotus Sutra
The thought of highest enlightenment awakened.
The Bhagavat has taught the Dharma
That is immeasurable and inconceivable,
And from which come benefits
As limitless as space.
Heavenly mandarava
And great mandarava flowers rained down;
And Sakras and Brahmas
Came from innumerable buddha lands,
Equal in number to the sands of the Ganges River.
Sandalwood and aloeswood powder,
Scattered like birds in the sky
Flying in all directions,
And rained down over the buddhas.
Heavenly drums resounded spontaneously
And beautifully in the air;
And thousands of myriads of ko?is
Of heavenly garments floated whirling down.
Precious incense was burned
In various jeweled incense holders,
Its fragrance naturally penetrating everywhere,
In homage to the Bhagavats.
The great assembly of these bodhisattvas
Held myriads of ko?is of tall and beautiful
Seven-jeweled banners and umbrellas,
Which extended gradually to the Brahma world.
They hung jeweled flags and excellent banners
In the presence of each of these buddhas,
And chanted thousands of myriads of verses
In praise of the Tathagatas.
Such things had never been
Experienced before.
Hearing of the Buddha’s
Immeasurable lifespan, all rejoiced;
And, the Buddha’s name being heard
44cChapter XVII
Throughout the ten directions,
Sentient beings were greatly benefited.
Everyone became endowed
With the roots of good merit,
And the thought of highest, complete enlightenment
Awakened in them.
At that time the Buddha addressed Bodhisattva Mahasattva Maitreya,
saying: “O Ajita! Those sentient beings who hear about the great length of
the Buddha’s lifespan, and can awaken even a single thought of willing
acceptance, will all obtain immeasurable merit. If there are sons and daughters of a good family who, for the sake of highest, complete enlightenment,
practice the five perfections of giving (dana), good conduct (sila), perseverance (k?anti), effort (virya), and meditation (dhyana), with the exception
of the perfection of wisdom (prajña), for eighty myriads of ko?is of nayutas
of kalpas, their merit is not even a hundredth, a thousandth, a hundred thousandth of a myriad of a ko?i of the former person’s merit. It is so small that
it cannot be conceived of through calculation or illustration. If there are sons
and daughters of a virtuous family who possess such merit as the former,
they will never revert from highest, complete enlightenment.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
Those who seek the Buddha’s wisdom
Will practice the five perfections
For eighty myriads of ko?is
Of nayutas of kalpas.
Throughout these kalpas they will pay homage to
The buddhas, pratyekabuddhas, sravakas,
And all the bodhisattvas by offering
Rare delicacies, excellent garments, and bedding,
Or by building monasteries out of sandalwood
Which are adorned with gardens.
Through offering such a variety of precious things
Throughout all of these kalpas,
They will transfer the merits to the buddha path.
237The Lotus Sutra
Those who further maintain good conduct,
Which is pure and without corruption,
Will seek what the buddhas
Have praised as the highest path.
Those who further practice perseverance
And abide in the stage of self-control,
Will be of constant mind,
Even if subjected to ill-treatment.
They will continue to endure
Even if they are scorned and persecuted
By those who think, through their excessive pride,
That they have attained the truth.
Those who make diligent efforts
And are firm in their intentions
For immeasurable ko?is of kalpas
Will be intent and never lazy;
And those who abide in tranquil places
For immeasurable kalpas
Will always discipline their minds, avoiding sleep,
While either sitting or wandering.
For these reasons they will
Abide in various meditations,
Their minds firm and unwavering,
For eighty myriads of ko?is of kalpas.
Maintaining the merit of this concentration
They seek the highest path saying:
I will attain omniscience.
Then they will achieve
This perfection of meditation.
Practicing thus for hundreds of thousands
Of myriads of ko?is of kalpas,
Their merits will be as mentioned above.
If those sons and daughters of a virtuous family,
Upon hearing me explain about my lifespan
238Chapter XVII
In this way, are able to awaken
Even a single thought of willing acceptance,
Their merit exceeds that of the former.
Such will also be the merit
Of those who have no doubts whatsoever
And believe deeply even for a single moment.
Those bodhisattvas who practice the path
For a period of immeasurable kalpas,
And who believe my explanation of my lifespan
When they hear it, are the ones
Who fully accept this sutra,
Saying:
Let us in the future devote a long life
To saving sentient beings!
Just as the present Bhagavat,
King among the Sakyas, who roars the lion’s roar
On the terrace of enlightenment,
Is fearless in teaching the Dharma,
Let us in the future be respected by all
And teach of the lifespan
While seated upon the terrace of enlightenment.
Those who have profound thoughts, are pure,
Honest and learned, have good recollection,
And understand the Buddha’s words in accordance
With what is appropriate,
Will have no doubts regarding this.
“Furthermore, O Ajita, those who hear of the great length of the Buddha’s
lifespan and understand the intent of these words will obtain limitless merit
that will give rise to the highest wisdom of the Tathagata. How much more
merit will they gain who extensively hear this sutra, move others to listen to
it, preserve it, move others to preserve it, copy it, or move others to copy it;
and pay homage to the sutra by offering flowers, incense, necklaces, flags,
banners, canopies, lamps of scented oil, and ghee! The merit of these people
will be immeasurable and limitless. They will be able to achieve omniscience.
45bThe Lotus Sutra
“O Ajita! Those sons and daughters of a virtuous family, who, hearing
me teach the great length of the Buddha’s lifespan, wholeheartedly accept
it, will see the Buddha, who always dwells on Mount G?dhraku?a together
with the great bodhisattvas and sravakas, teaching the Dharma to the assembly. Moreover, they will see the land of this saha world, which is made of
lapis lazuli, level and even. The network of roads is laid out like a chessboard, paved with Jambunada gold and bordered with jeweled trees. All its
foundations, towers, and balconies will be made of treasures and the multitude of these bodhisattvas will be dwelling in them. Those who can see such
things should know that to be able to do so is a sign of their full and willing
acceptance.
“Furthermore, after the Tathagata’s parinirva?a, those who hear this
sutra do not disparage it and rejoice in their hearts, should know that this is
a sign of their full and willing acceptance. How much more do those who
recite and preserve this sutra show a sign of full and willing acceptance!
Such are the people who hold the Tathagata in respect.
“O Ajita! These sons and daughters of a virtuous family do not have to build
stupas and monasteries for me, make chambers for the monks, or pay homage
to the sangha with the four kinds of offerings. Why is this? Because these sons
and daughters of a virtuous family recite and preserve this sutra, which means
they have already built stupas, made chambers for the monks, and paid homage to the sangha. They have already erected seven-jeweled stupas for the
Buddha’s relics, which are tall and wide, gradually narrowing to a pinnacle
that reaches to the Brahma world. They have hung various banners, canopies,
and variegated jeweled bells; offered flowers, incense, necklaces, scented
powder, and ointment; burned incense; played drums, music, flutes, pipes,
harps, and various dances; and adorned the stupas and relics of the Buddha
by praising with verses and songs in beautiful voices. In this way they have
already paid homage for immeasurable thousands of myriads of ko?is of kalpas.
“O Ajita! After my parinirva?a, those who hear this sutra and who can
preserve it, copy it and move others to copy it, have already built chambers
for monks, as well as thirty-two red sandalwood monasteries of the height of
eight tala trees, wide and fine, housing hundreds of thousands of monks. The
monasteries they have built have gardens, ponds, paths for wandering, meditation caves, garments, food and drink, bedding, medicine, and are replete
45cChapter XVII
with all other necessities. Such hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of
monks’ chambers and towers will be incalculable. With these they pay homage to me and to the assembly of monks.
“I have explained that, for this reason, after the Tathagata’s parinirva?a
those who preserve and recite this sutra, and explain it to others, who copy
it or move others to copy it and who pay it homage to it no longer have to
build stupas, monasteries, or erect chambers for the monks, or revere the
sangha. How much less do those who preserve this sutra and practice the
perfections of giving (dana), good conduct (sila), perseverance (k?anti),
effort (virya), meditation (dhyana), and wisdom (prajña) need to do so! Their
merit is the highest, immeasurable and limitless. It is immeasurable and limitless in the same way that space is immeasurable and limitless in the ten
directions—east, west, south, north, the four intermediate directions, and the
zenith and nadir—and they will thus quickly obtain omniscience.
“Those who recite and preserve this sutra, who explain it for others, who
copy it or move others to copy it, build monuments and make chambers for
monks, revere and praise the sangha of sravakas, and praise the merits of
the bodhisattvas in hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of ways; those
who explain this Lotus Sutra for the sake of others in accordance with its
meaning through various illustrations, who preserve pure conduct and dwell
together with gentle people, who are patient and have no anger, are firm in
their intentions and always hold meditation in high regard, who attain profound samadhi and make vigorous efforts, persevere in all good practices,
whose wisdom is keen and who answer difficult questions skillfully; O Ajita!
Those sons and daughters of a virtuous family, who preserve and recite this
sutra after my parinirva?a will attain good qualities like those mentioned
above. You should know that such people have already set out for the terrace of enlightenment, are near to highest, complete enlightenment, and are
seated under the bodhi tree.
“O Ajita! Wherever these sons and daughters of a virtuous family sit,
stand, or walk, there a monument should be built; and all of the devas and
humans should pay homage to these monuments as they would do to those
of the Buddha.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
46aThe Lotus Sutra
If after my parinirva?a there are people
Who preserve this sutra,
They will have immeasurable merits
As described above.
Such people have already given
Various kinds of offerings:
They have built stupas for the relics,
Adorned with the seven treasures,
With a pole on the top which is very tall and thick,
Gradually tapering upward,
Until it reaches the Brahma world.
These stupas have been adorned
With thousands of myriads of ko?is of jeweled bells
That ring with beautiful sounds as the wind blows.
For immeasurable kalpas such people
Have revered these stupas
By offering flowers, incense, necklaces,
Heavenly garments, and various kinds of music,
While burning scented ointments and butter-oil lamps
Which illuminate them on all sides.
In the troubled world of the Decadent Dharma,
Those who preserve this sutra
Will have already finished paying homage
In the way just described.
If they can preserve this sutra
It will be as if they had paid homage
In the presence of the Buddha;
And had built monasteries for monks
Out of sandalwood from Mount Oxhead,
And thirty-two buildings as tall
As eight tala trees; and offered delicious food,
Excellent garments, bedding, hundreds of
Thousands of dwellings, gardens, ponds,
Paths for wandering, and meditation caves
All of fine quality.
242Chapter XVII
Those who have the thought of willing acceptance,
Who preserve, recite, copy,
Or move others to copy this sutra,
And who pay it homage
By scattering flowers, incense, and scented powders on it,
And by constantly lighting lamps of
Fragrant oil made from sumanas flowers,
Campaka wood, and atimukta grass;
Those who pay it homage in this way
Will attain immeasurable merit.
Their merit will be as limitless
As empty space.
How much more is the merit
Of those who preserve this sutra,
Who carry out the practice of giving (dana),
Good conduct (sila), perseverance (k?anti), and meditation (dhyana),
Who never get angry or slander others,
Who honor monuments
And are humble before monks,
And who are free from pride,
Always contemplate wisdom,
Never get angry at difficult questions,
And teach in accordance
With the questioner’s capacity!
If there is anyone
Who can carry out these practices,
Their merit will be immeasurable.
If one were to see such an expounder of the Dharma
Who has perfected merits like these,
One should scatter heavenly flowers over him
And provide him with heavenly garments,
Bow until one’s forehead touches his feet,
And think of him as if he were a buddha.
Furthermore, one should think
That before long the expounder of the Dharma
46bThe Lotus Sutra
Will approach the terrace of enlightenment,
Attain the unconditioned state of noncorruption,
And extensively benefit devas and humans.
Wherever he dwells, walks, or sits,
Or recites even a single verse,
A stupa should be built,
Made beautiful with adornments,
And paid homage in various ways.
Wherever the heirs of the Buddha may reside,
There the Buddha himself will take pleasure in its use
And will always be dwelling,
Walking, and sitting within.
244Chapter XVIII
The Merits of Joyful Acceptance
Thereupon Bodhisattva Mahasattva Maitreya addressed the Buddha, saying:
“O Bhagavat! If sons and daughters of a virtuous family rejoice in hearing this
sutra, how much merit do they acquire?”
And he spoke in verse, saying:
After the Bhagavat’s parinirva?a,
If there is anyone who hears this sutra
And rejoices in it,
How much merit do they acquire?
Then the Buddha addressed Bodhisattva Mahasattva Maitreya, saying:
“O Ajita! After the Tathagata’s parinirva?a, suppose those monks, nuns,
laymen, and laywomen and other wise ones, whether old or young, having
rejoiced in hearing this sutra, take leave of the Dharma assembly and go to
other places—either dwelling in monasteries or tranquil places, cities, towns,
villages, or forests—and teach what they have heard to their parents, relatives, good friends, and acquaintances according to the various capacities of
these people. Having heard the teaching, they will rejoice and go on to teach
it to others. These people having heard it will also joyfully teach it to others
in turn, and so it continues in this way until it reaches the fiftieth person.
“O Ajita! I will now explain about the merit which this fiftieth son or
daughter of a virtuous family acquires from joyful acceptance. You should
listen attentively!
“Suppose that in the four hundreds of myriads of ko?is of incalculable
worlds, there are sentient beings in the six transmigratory states and of the
four modes of birth—born from an egg, born from the womb, from moisture, or born spontaneously—either with or without form, either with or
without consciousness, either unconscious or not unconscious, having no
legs, two, four, or many legs; and that, among the number of such beings,
there is a person who seeks to acquire merit and gives pleasurable things to
46cThe Lotus Sutra
these beings, according to their desire. He gives each of those sentient beings
gold, silver, lapis lazuli, mother-of-pearl, agate, coral, amber, and other treasures such as would fill this continent of Jambudvipa, as well as elephant
carts, horse carts, and palaces and towers made out of the seven treasures.
Having performed such acts of giving for a full eighty years, this great donor
thinks:
I have already given these sentient beings such pleasurable things as
they wished. Yet now these sentient beings are old and feeble. They are
over eighty years old, with white hair and wrinkles, and they will die
before long. I should now instruct them by means of the Buddha-Dharma.
“He immediately gathers these sentient beings together, inspires them
by proclaiming the Dharma, and gladdens them by revealing its benefits. In
an instant they all successively attain the first stage of the sravakas called
stream-winner (srota-apanna), the second stage called once-returner
(sak?dagamin) the third stage called non-returner (anagamin), and finally
the stage of the arhat, free from corruption, entering profound meditations,
gaining complete mastery of all, and attaining the eight liberations.
“What do you think about this? Has this great donor acquired abundant
merit or not?”
Maitreya addressed the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! The donor’s merit
is extremely great, immeasurable and limitless. Even if this donor had only
given all those pleasurable things to sentient beings, the merit would have
been immeasurable. How much greater is this donor’s merit after having
caused them to attain arhatship!”
The Buddha addressed Maitreya, saying: “I will now clarify this for you.
This person has given all these pleasurable things to the sentient beings in
the six states of existence in four hundreds of myriads of ko?is of incalculable worlds, and enabled them to attain arhatship. The merit he has attained
cannot be compared with that of even the fiftieth person who, after hearing
even a single verse of the Lotus Sutra, received it with joy. It would be even
less than a hundredth, a thousandth, a hundred thousandth of a myriad of a
ko?i of that person’s merit.
“O Ajita! In this way the merit attained by even the fiftieth person who
rejoiced in hearing this Lotus Sutra is immeasurable, limitless, and incalcu-
246Chapter XVIII
lable. How much more so is the merit of the first person who heard it in the
assembly and rejoiced in it! His merit is even greater, it is immeasurable,
limitless, and incalculable, and is not to be apprehended through metaphor.
“Furthermore, O Ajita, if anyone approaches the monasteries in order
to listen to this sutra and hears it for even a single moment, whether seated
or standing, through this merit they will be reborn into a place where they
will gain beautiful and excellent elephant carts, horse carts, palanquins made
out of rare treasures, and will ride on a heavenly vehicle. Moreover, if anyone sits in a place where the Dharma is taught, and if another comes along
and they invite that person to sit down and listen, or if they offer that person part of their own seat, through this merit they will be reborn in the place
where Sakra dwells, in the place where Brahmas dwell, or in a place where
a noble emperor dwells.
“O Ajita! If anyone addresses others, saying:
There is a sutra called the Lotus Sutra. Let us go together and listen
to it!
“And if their instruction is accepted and the other person listens to it for
even a single moment, then through this merit the former person will be reborn
in the same place as the bodhisattva who has acquired the dhara?is. They
will have keen faculties and wisdom. For hundreds and thousands of myriads of lives they will never be deaf and dumb; nor will they have fetid breath.
Their tongues will never be diseased, nor will they have diseases of the mouth.
Their teeth will never be dirty, black, or yellow, nor gapped; nor will any be
missing, irregular, or crooked. Their lips will not be drooping, pursed, or
twisted; and their lips will never have cankers, scabs, be cracked, misshapen,
thick or fat, black, or ugly. They will have no disagreeable features. Their noses
will never be flat or thin, crooked or twisted. They will never be dark-complected, with a narrow or long face that is hollow-cheeked or twisted. They will
have no mark that is displeasing to others. Their lips, tongues, and teeth will
all be very beautiful. Their noses will be long, high, and straight. Their faces
will be round, their eyebrows arched and long. Their foreheads will be broad
and even. They will thus have a perfect human countenance. Wherever they
may be born, life after life, they will meet a buddha, hear the Dharma, and accept
the teaching.
47aThe Lotus Sutra
“Look, O Ajita! The merit of that person who moved others to listen to
the Dharma is like this. How much more is the merit of those who singlemindedly listen, teach, and recite the sutra, explain it for others in the great
assembly, and practice as they explain to others!”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
If anyone hears this sutra
In the Dharma assembly,
And joyfully teaches others
Even a single verse,
And if in this way it is taught from one person
To another until it reaches the fiftieth one,
The merit that this last person will attain
Shall be as I will now explain:
Suppose there were a great donor
Who gave things to an immeasurable number
Of people as they wished
For a full eighty years.
He will see that they are old and feeble,
With white hair and wrinkled faces,
With gaps between their teeth and withered bodies,
And that they will die before long.
He will think that he should now
Teach them and enable them
To attain the fruits
Of the buddha path.
He will teach nirvana, the True Dharma,
Through skillful means, saying:
The world is impermanent
Like splashes of water, bubbles, a mirage!
The feeling of repulsion for it
Should quickly awaken in you!
All of them, hearing this teaching,
Attain arhatship and perfect
47bChapter XVIII
The six transcendent powers, the three sciences,
And the eight liberations.
The merit of the fiftieth person
Who joyfully hears a single verse
Is so much greater than this great donor’s
That it is beyond illustration.
The merit of those who successively hear
The Lotus Sutra in this way is immeasurable.
How much more is the merit of the first person
Who heard it with joy amid the Dharma assembly!
If there is a person who moves another
To listen to the Lotus Sutra, saying:
This sutra is profound and difficult to encounter
Even in thousands of myriads of ko?is of kalpas.
And if this person’s urging is accepted
And the other one goes to hear it
And listens for a single moment,
The merit that the former person will acquire
Shall be as I will now explain:
Life after life they will have
No diseases of the mouth.
Their teeth will have no gaps,
Nor be yellow or black.
Their lips will be neither fat, thick,
Or thin; nor will they ever have
A disagreeable countenance;
And their tongues will never be
Dry, black, or short.
Their noses will be high, long, and straight.
Their foreheads will be broad and even.
Their faces will be completely handsome,
Pleasing to others who see them.
They will never have fetid breath.
And their mouths will always emit
249The Lotus Sutra
The fragrance of a blue lotus flower.
I will now explain the merit
Of the one who approaches the monastery
Wanting to hear the Lotus Sutra,
And who joyfully listens to it
Even for a single moment:
Later they will be born among devas and humans
And will acquire beautiful elephant and horse carts,
And palanquins made out of rare treasures,
And will ride on a heavenly vehicle.
If one is where the Dharma is taught
And invites another to sit there
And listen to the sutra,
Through the merit which is thus acquired,
One will attain the seats of Sakra,
Brahma, or the noble emperors.
How much more is the merit of a person
Who singlemindedly listens to this sutra,
Explains its meaning, and practices
In accordance with its teaching!
Their merit will thus be limitless.
47cChapter XIX
The Benefits Obtained by
an Expounder of the Dharma
Thereupon the Buddha addressed Bodhisattva Mahasattva Satatasamita-
bhiyukta, saying: “If sons or daughters of a virtuous family preserve this
Lotus Sutra, recite, explain, and copy it, they will attain eight hundred qualities of the eye, twelve hundred qualities of the ear, eight hundred qualities
of the nose, twelve hundred qualities of the tongue, eight hundred qualities
of the body, and twelve hundred qualities of the mind. These qualities will
adorn the six sense faculties, purifying them all. Through the natural bodily
eyes given them by their parents, which are thus purified, those sons and
daughters of a virtuous family will see the mountains, forests, rivers, and
oceans both within and beyond the great manifold cosmos, all the way from
the lowest hell up as far as the highest summit of the universe. They will also
see all the sentient beings there, perceive and know the causes and consequences of their deeds and of their states of birth.”
Then the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate upon the meaning of this further, spoke these verses:
Listen to the qualities
Of those in the great assembly
Who can fearlessly teach
This Lotus Sutra!
Such people will attain
The eight hundred qualities
Of the excellent eye.
Adorned with these qualities
Their eyes are extremely pure.
With the eyes given by their parents
They see both all the manifold cosmos,
Within and beyond Mount Meru, Sumeru, up to Mount Cakrava?a,
251The Lotus Sutra
And many other mountains,
Forests, oceans, rivers, and streams,
Down to the lowest hell
And up to the summit of the universe.
There they see all the sentient beings;
Although they have not yet
Attained the divine eyes,
Their power of sight will be like this.
“Furthermore, O Satatasamitabhiyukta, if sons or daughters of a virtuous family preserve, recite, explain, or copy this sutra, they will attain the
twelve hundred qualities of the ear. Through their pure ears they will hear
both within and beyond the great manifold cosmos, down as far as the lowest hell and up as high as the summit of the universe; they will hear all kinds
of voices and sounds, such as the sound of elephants, the neighing of horses,
the sound of cows and carts, cries, weeping, the sound of conches and drums,
gongs and bells, laughter, talking, male and female voices, the voices of boys
and girls, righteous and unrighteous voices, the sounds of suffering and happiness, the voices of common and holy people, pleasant and unpleasant
sounds; the voices of devas, nagas, yak?as, gandharvas, asuras, garu?as,
ki?naras, mahoragas, the sounds of fire, water, wind, beings in the hells,
animals, hungry ghosts, monks, nuns, sravakas, pratyekabuddhas, bodhisattvas, and buddhas.
“In short, although they do not have the divine faculty of hearing, they
will always hear and know everything both within and beyond the great manifold cosmos, through the purified, natural bodily ears given by their parents. They distinguish all these various sounds and yet their faculty of hearing remains unharmed.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
The ear, given by the parents,
Is pure and spotless;
With this natural ear
They hear the sounds of the manifold cosmos.
They hear the sounds of elephants,
48aChapter XIX
Horses, carts and cows;
The sounds of gongs, bells, conches,
Drums, and vi?as;
The sounds of harps, bamboo pipes, and flutes;
Pure and pleasing songs.
And even though they hear these,
They are not attached to them.
They hear innumerable kinds of human voices,
And yet they are able to discriminate them.
Furthermore, they hear divine sounds,
Subtle melodies, male and female voices,
The sounds of boys and girls.
They also hear the cries of the kalavi?ka
And jivakajivaka birds in the mountains,
Around the rivers, or in deep valleys.
They hear as well various sounds of pain
And suffering from the hells,
And sounds of hungry ghosts,
Who, suffering from hunger and thirst,
Are in search of food and drink.
When the asuras living along the ocean
Speak to each other and utter great cries,
Such expounders of the Dharma, living here,
Hear all of these various voices from afar,
And yet their faculty of hearing is unharmed.
Those expounders of the Dharma
Hear all birds and animals
In the ten directions calling to each other.
The expounders of the Dharma dwelling here
Also hear the voices in the Abhasvara
And Subhak?tsna Heavens above the Brahma world,
All the way up to the summit of the universe.
The expounders of the Dharma dwelling here
Hear all of the monks and nuns
Either reciting the sutra
48bThe Lotus Sutra
Or explaining it to others.
They also hear such voices
As those of the bodhisattvas reciting the sutra,
Teaching it to others, compiling the collections,
And explaining their meaning to others.
Those who preserve this Lotus Sutra
Will all hear the buddhas, the great seers,
Teaching the subtle Dharma to the great assembly
And leading and inspiring sentient beings.
They will hear all the sounds
Both within and beyond the manifold cosmos,
Down to the lowest hell
And up to the summit of the universe;
And yet their faculty of hearing
Remains unharmed.
Because their faculty of hearing is keen,
They are able to discriminate these sounds.
Although those who preserve this Lotus Sutra
Have not yet attained the divine faculty of hearing,
They can simply use the ears given by their parents.
Their qualities are exactly like this.
“Furthermore, O Satatasamitabhiyukta, if sons or daughters of a good
family preserve this sutra, recite, explain, or copy it, they will perfect the
eight hundred qualities of the nose. With this pure faculty of the nose they
will smell all kinds of fragrances both within and beyond the great manifold
cosmos, such as the fragrance of sumanas, jati, mallika, campaka, pa?ala
flowers, and red, blue, and white lotus flowers, the scent of blossoming and
fruit-bearing trees like sandalwood, aloeswood, and tagara wood, the aroma
of the leaves of the tamala tree, thousands of myriads of sorts of fragrances
of blended incense, either powdered, shaped into balls, or made into scented
ointments. Those who preserve this sutra will be able to distinguish all of
these fragrances while remaining in a single place. They will be able to distinguish the scents of sentient beings such as elephants, horses, cows, sheep,
men and women, boys and girls, grasses, trees, and shrubs or any kind of
254Chapter XIX
odor, either nearby or at a distance. They will also be able to unerringly distinguish all kinds of scents.
“Those who preserve this sutra, although they dwell here, can smell all
kinds of divine fragrances in heaven, such as the fragrance of paracitraka
and kovidara trees; mandarava, great mandarava, mañju?aka, and great
mañju?aka flowers, or the fragrance of sandalwood and aloeswood powder
and various kinds of powdered and blended incense. Among these divine
fragrances, there is not one whose scent they cannot distinguish.
“They can smell the fragrance of the bodies of all the devas. They can
also smell from afar the fragrance that is emitted when Sakra, the king of
devas, is dwelling in his excellent palace, when he is enjoying the desires of
the five senses, or the fragrance that is emitted when he is in the Sudharma
Hall teaching the Dharma to the thirty-three devas, or the fragrance that is
emitted when he plays in the garden, or the fragrance of the bodies of all the
other male and female devas.
“In this way their faculty of smell reaches up to the Brahma world and
to the highest summit of the universe, wherein they can smell the bodies of
the devas and the incense the devas burn. They can also smell from afar the
fragrance of the sravakas, pratyekabuddhas, bodhisattvas, and buddhas and
know where they are.
“Although they can smell all these fragrances, their faculty of smell will
not be harmed or misled; and if they want to discriminate and explain these
different fragrances to others, they remember them without error.”
At that time the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate the meaning of this further, spoke these verses:
Their faculty of smell is pure.
They can smell and discriminate
All kinds of good and bad odors
In this world, such as sumanas
And jati flowers, tamala leaves,
Sandalwood, aloeswood, and tagara trees,
And various fruits and flowers.
And they also know the fragrance
Of sentient beings, men and women.
48cThe Lotus Sutra
The Dharma teachers, although dwelling afar,
Know where these fragrances come from.
They smell the scents of the noble emperors
Of great dignity, the lesser rulers
And their children, subjects and attendants,
And know where they are.
They can smell the fragrance of the rare jewels
That they wear, their underground treasuries,
And the noble emperor’s bejeweled queens,
And also know where they are.
They can also smell the ornaments, garments,
And necklaces with which people adorn themselves
And the fragrances they anoint themselves with,
And know who wears them.
Those who preserve this Lotus Sutra can smell
The fragrance of the devas and tell
Whether they are walking, sitting,
Playing, or transforming themselves.
Although they dwell here,
Those who preserve this sutra,
Know the location of the fragrances
Of various flowers, fruits, and oils in detail.
They can smell the scent of sentient beings,
Either deep in dangerous mountains,
Or where the sandalwood flowers are in bloom,
And know where they are.
Those who preserve this sutra
Can smell the scents of sentient beings,
Either on Mount Cakrava?a,
In the ocean or underground,
And know exactly where they are.
They can also smell the scents of the male
And female asuras and their attendants;
And they can discriminate them,
When they are fighting or when at play.
49aChapter XIX
They can also smell the odors of lions,
Elephants, tigers, wolves, buffaloes,
And water buffaloes dwelling in dangerous
Precipitous places in the wilderness,
And know where they are.
They can smell and discriminate exactly
The scent of a pregnant woman
And determine whether the embryo
Will be male or female,
Without sex organs, or nonhuman.
Through this power of smell
They know in the first instance
If the woman is pregnant,
And whether or not
It will be carried to full term;
And if she will give birth easily,
And to a happy child.
Through this power of the faculty of smell
They know what men and women are thinking,
Their desires, delusions, and anger,
Or whether they cultivate goodness.
They can also smell gold, silver,
And various rare treasures hidden underground,
As well as the contents of copper vessels,
And completely distinguish them.
They can smell various necklaces
And know whether they are valuable or not,
Even when their prices are undetermined,
Where they come from and where they are now.
They can smell and know all about
Divine flowers such as mandarava
And mañju?aka flowers and parijata trees.
They can also smell and discriminate
The difference between superior,
Mediocre, and inferior fragrances
257The Lotus Sutra
Of heavenly palaces adorned
With various jeweled flowers.
They can also smell and know exactly
About those who take pleasure
In the heavenly gardens, excellent palaces,
Towers and Dharma halls.
Moreover, they can smell and know exactly
Whether the devas are listening to the Dharma,
Are enjoying the desires of the five senses,
Or whether they are coming, going,
Walking, sitting, or lying.
They can also smell and know every detail of
The garments worn by the heavenly maidens,
Giving off the fragrance of beautiful flowers,
And where those maidens ramble in their play.
In this way their power of smell reaches
All the way up to the Brahma world.
They can smell and know exactly
The devas entering meditation and
Emerging from meditation.
They can also smell
All the way from the Abhasvara
And Subhak?tsna Heavens
Up to the highest summit of the universe,
And know exactly
Who has been born there for the first time
And who has emerged.
Those who preserve this sutra can
Smell the monks and know exactly where they are,
If they are constantly persevering toward the Dharma,
If they are either sitting or walking,
Reciting this sutra;
Or if they are diligently
Meditating under forest trees.
They can also smell and know exactly
49bChapter XIX
If a bodhisattva is firm in intention,
Meditating or reciting the sutra,
Or teaching the Dharma to others.
They can also smell and know exactly
If the Bhagavat is being honored by all,
And if he is teaching the Dharma
Out of his compassion for sentient beings.
Moreover, they can smell and know exactly
If the sentient beings in the presence
Of the Buddha are joyfully listening
To the sutra, and are practicing
According to the Dharma.
Those who preserve this sutra
Will attain a faculty of smell such as this,
Even before the bodhisattva’s faculty of smell
That is attained from the incorruptible Dharma.
“Furthermore, O Satatasamitabhiyukta, if sons and daughters of a virtuous family preserve, recite, explain, or copy this sutra, they will attain the
twelve hundred qualities of the tongue. All that they taste, whether of good
or bad flavor, savory or bland, bitter or astringent, will, through their pure
faculty of tongue, come to taste just like the heavenly nectar of immortality,
and they will find nothing unpleasant.
“If they expound the teaching to the great multitude with their tongues,
their voices will be profound and touch the heart. All those in this multitude
will be gladdened and pleased.
“Furthermore, Sakra, Brahma and other devaputras and heavenly maidens, hearing a sequence of their teaching expounded with such profound
voices, will all come to hear it. Dragons, the daughters of nagas, yak?as, the
daughters of yak?as, gandharvas, the daughters of gandharvas, asuras, the
daughters of asuras, garu?as, the daughters of garu?as, ki?naras, the daughters of ki?naras, mahoragas, and the daughters of mahoragas will all approach,
respect, and honor them in order to listen to their teaching. The monks, nuns,
laymen, and laywomen, kings and princes, ministers and their attendants, and
the lesser noble emperors and great noble emperors adorned with the seven
259The Lotus Sutra
treasures and their thousand princes and their attendants of the inner and outer
households will enter the palace and listen to the teaching.
“Since these bodhisattvas expound the teaching skillfully, the brahmans,
householders, and the people of their land will attend and honor such bodhisattvas until the end of their lives. All the sravakas, pratyekabuddhas, bodhisattvas, and buddhas will always wish to see them.
“Wherever this person may be, he will teach the Dharma in the presence of the buddhas there. He will thus be able to preserve the BuddhaDharma entirely as well as utter the profound word of the Dharma.”
Whereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
Such people, through their pure faculty of taste,
Will never taste bad flavors.
Whatever they eat
Will all become the nectar of immortality.
With their profound, subtle voice
They will teach the Dharma to the great assembly.
With various explanations and illustrations
Their teaching will touch the hearts of sentient beings.
All those who hear them will be gladdened
And honor them with the best offerings.
All the devas, nagas, yak?as, and asuras
Will come together and listen with respect
To the Dharma.
If these expounders of the Dharma want
Their subtle voice to penetrate
Throughout the manifold cosmos,
It will reach wherever they wish.
The great and lesser noble emperors,
And their thousand princes and attendants,
Will always come and listen to the Dharma
With their palms pressed together
And with respectful thoughts.
All the devas, nagas, yak?as,
Rak?asas, and pisacas
49cChapter XIX
With joyful minds will also always
Rejoice to come and honor them.
All the devas,
Such as Brahma, Mara, Isvara, Mahesvara,
Will always come to them.
All the buddhas and their disciples,
Hearing the sound of his teaching,
Will always remember and protect him,
And at times appear in his presence.
“Furthermore, O Satatasamitabhiyukta, those sons and daughters of a
virtuous family who preserve, recite, explain, and copy this sutra will attain
eight hundred qualities of the body. Their bodies will be as pure as clear
lapis lazuli and sentient beings will gladly look upon them. Because of this
purity of body, everything will appear therein: the sentient beings in the great
manifold cosmos, when they are born or die, whether they are superior or
inferior, whether they are fair or ugly, whether they are in the good or bad
states of being. The mountain kings, such as Mount Cakrava?a, Mount Maha-
cakrava?a, Mount Meru, or Mount Mahameru, as well as all the sentient
beings who dwell there, will all appear in their body. All those who dwell
down as far as the lowest hell and up as high as the summit of the universe
will appear in their body. Wherever those sravakas, pratyekabuddhas, bodhisattvas, or buddhas are, the buddhas teach the Dharma; and will appear with
their physical images in their body.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
Their bodies are extremely pure
Like clear lapis lazuli.
All those sentient beings
Who preserve the Lotus Sutra
Will gladly look upon them.
Just as all physical images
Reflect in a clear mirror,
The bodhisattvas will see in their own bodies
Everything in this world.
50aThe Lotus Sutra
They alone see it,
While no one else does.
All those sentient beings, devas, humans,
Asuras, hell-dwellers, hungry ghosts,
Or animals in the manifold cosmos
Will also appear in this body
With their physical images.
All the heavenly palaces
Which reach as high as the top of the universe,
Mount Cakrava?a, Mount Meru, Mount Mahameru
And the oceans will appear in their bodies.
Those buddhas, sravakas, or bodhisattvas,
Heirs of the buddhas,
Who are either alone
Or who teach the Dharma to the assembly,
Will all appear in their body.
Even though they have not yet attained
The Dharma body,
Which is subtle and without corruption,
Everything in this world
Will appear in their pure physical bodies.
“Furthermore, O Satatasamitabhiyukta, a son or a daughter of a virtuous
family who preserves, recites, explains, or copies this sutra, after the
parinirva?a of the Tathagata will attain twelve hundred qualities of the mind.
Through their pure faculty of mind, on hearing but a single verse or a single
line, they will become versed in the immeasurable and limitless meaning.
“If, after having understood this meaning, they teach a single line or a
single verse for the period of one month, four months, or one year, all the
teachings they expound will be entirely characterized by the mark of truth,
in accordance with its meaning.
“If they teach the works on worldly affairs, treatises on political science
or enterprise, all these will be in harmony with the True Dharma. They will
completely know the minds of those sentient beings who pass through the
six transmigratory states in the great manifold cosmos—their workings,
262Chapter XIX
shifts, and fallacies—even though they have not yet attained the uncorrupted
wisdom. Their faculty of mind will be pure just like this.
“Whatever this person contemplates, judges, or expounds will be nothing but the True Buddha-Dharma, which has also been taught in the sutras
by previous buddhas.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate the meaning of this further, spoke these verses:
The minds of such people are pure
And transparent without impurity.
Through their faculty of intellect
They will know the superior,
Mediocre and inferior teachings.
On hearing a single verse,
They will thoroughly penetrate
The immeasurable meaning.
Thus they will teach the Dharma little by little
For a period of one month,
Four months, or one year.
As the result of preserving the Lotus Sutra,
They will instantly know
What all the sentient beings,
Inside and outside this world,
Such as devas, nagas, humans, yak?as, rak?asas,
And those who dwell in the six transmigratory states,
Think in their various ways.
They will hear and completely preserve the Dharma
Which the innumerable buddhas in the ten directions,
Who are possessed of the marks of a hundred merits,
Teach for the sake of sentient beings.
They contemplate the immeasurable meaning
And they teach the Dharma in immeasurable ways;
They will neither forget nor be confused
From the beginning to the end
Because they preserve the Lotus Sutra.
50bThe Lotus Sutra
They will completely know
All aspects of all dharmas,
And discern the meaning
According to the sequence.
They will be versed in names and words
And expound in accordance with this knowledge.
What they teach is the Dharma
That has all been taught
By the buddhas of the past.
Because they expound this Dharma,
They will have no fear among the people.
Those who preserve the Lotus Sutra possess
The pure faculty of mind just like this.
Even though they have not yet attained
The stage of noncorruption,
They will previously have had
The characteristics described above.
These people preserve this sutra
And dwell in the marvelous stage;
All the sentient beings will rejoice
And revere them.
They will illuminate and explain the teaching
With thousands of myriads of ko?is of skillful words
Because they preserve the Lotus Sutra.
264Chapter XX
Bodhisattva Sadaparibhuta
Thereupon the Buddha addressed Bodhisattva Mahasattva Mahasthamaprapta:
“You should know that, as I have previously explained, those who revile,
disparage, or slander monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen who preserve the
Lotus Sutra will sow a bitter harvest; as I have just taught, the merit attained
by preserving the Lotus Sutra will result in the pure faculties of the eye, ear,
nose, tongue, body, and mind.
“O Mahasthamaprapta, in the past, immeasurable, limitless, inconceivable and incalculable kalpas ago, there was a buddha called Bhi?magarjitasvararaja, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower of the World, Unsurpassed,
Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat. His
land was called Mahasa?bhava and the kalpa was named Vinirbhoga. The
Buddha Bhi?magarjitasvararaja expounded the Dharma for the devas, humans,
and asuras in his world.
“To those who sought the sravaka vehicle he expounded the Dharma in
accordance with the Four Noble Truths, ferried them from birth, old age, illness, and death, and ultimately led them to nirvana. To those who sought the
pratyekabuddha vehicle, he expounded the Dharma in accordance with the
twelve-linked chain of dependent origination. To the bodhisattvas he expounded
the Dharma in accordance with the six perfections, with reference to highest,
complete enlightenment, and led them to the Buddha’s wisdom.
“O Mahasthamaprapta, the lifespan of the Buddha Bhi?magarjitasvararaja
was as kalpas equal to forty myriads of ko?is of nayutas of sands of the Ganges
River. The True Dharma abided for kalpas equal to the number of particles in
Jambudvipa. The Semblance Dharma abided for kalpas equal to the number
of particles in the four continents. After having benefited the sentient beings,
the Buddha entered parinirva?a. After the extinction of the True and Semblance Dharmas, there appeared in this land another buddha who was also
called Bhi?magarjitasvararaja, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened,
265The Lotus Sutra
Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower of the World,
Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas and Humans, Buddha,
Bhagavat. In this way there appeared two myriads of ko?is of buddhas one
after another, all of whom had the same name.
“After the parinirva?a of the first Tathagata Bhi?magarjitasvararaja, there
were excessively proud and overbearing monks in the Age of the Semblance
Dharma, after the True Dharma had been extinguished. At that time there was
also a monk, a bodhisattva, called Sadaparibhuta (Never Despising).
“O Mahasthamaprapta, why was he called Sadaparibhuta? Because
whenever he saw any monk, nun, layman, or laywoman, he would praise
and pay homage to them, saying:
I deeply respect you. I dare not belittle you. Why is this? Because all
of you practice the bodhisattva path, and will become buddhas.
“Furthermore, this monk did not concentrate himself on reciting the sutras
but only paid homage such that, even when he saw the fourfold assembly
from afar, he would go up to them, praise, and pay homage to them, saying:
I dare not belittle you, because you will all become buddhas.
“In the fourfold assembly there were some whose minds were impure
and who became angry, and reviled and disparaged him, saying:
Where does this ignorant monk come from? He says that he himself
does not belittle us and predicts that we shall all become buddhas. We
do not need such an idle prediction.
“In this way he wandered about for many years and was always reviled.
But he never got angry and always said, ‘You will become a buddha.’
“Whenever he spoke these words, people would assail him with sticks
or stones; he fled from them yet still proclaimed loudly at a distance:
I dare not belittle you. You will all become buddhas.
“Since he always spoke these words, the excessively proud monks, nuns,
laymen, and laywomen called him Sadaparibhuta. When this monk was about
to die, he heard in the air twenty thousands of myriads of ko?is of verses of
the Lotus Sutra expounded previously by the Buddha Bhi?magarjitasvararaja
50c
51aChapter XX
and, completely preserving them, he attained the purity of the eye, and the
purity of the ear, nose, tongue, body, and mind that were described before.
After having attained these pure faculties, his lifespan increased two hundreds of myriads of ko?is of nayutas of years and he taught this Lotus Sutra
to the people far and wide.
“Then those excessively proud monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen in
the fourfold assembly who had despised him and called him Sadaparibhuta
saw that he had attained great transcendent powers, the power of joy in eloquence, and the power of great virtuous meditation. Hearing his teaching,
all of them believed and followed him.
“Furthermore, this bodhisattva inspired a thousand myriads of ko?is of
sentient beings and caused them to abide in highest, complete enlightenment.
After his death, he met two thousand ko?is of buddhas, all of whom were called
Candrasuryapradipa. In accordance with his teaching he expounded this Lotus
Sutra, and for this reason met another two thousand ko?is of buddhas, all of
whom were called Meghasvararaja. He preserved and recited this sutra in
accordance with the teaching of these buddhas and expounded it for the sake
of the fourfold assembly. Thus he attained purity of the natural eye and purity
of the ear, nose, tongue, body, and mind, and taught the Dharma to the fourfold assembly without fear.
“O Mahasthamaprapta, this Bodhisattva Mahasattva Sadaparibhuta
respected, honored, praised, and paid homage to all these buddhas. Having
planted roots of good merit, he again met thousands of myriads of ko?is of
buddhas; and he expounded this sutra over again in accordance with the teaching of those buddhas. Having perfected his merits he attained buddhahood.
“O Mahasthamaprapta, what do you think about this? Was Bodhisattva
Sadaparibhuta of that time someone unknown to you? He was none other
than I myself. If I had not preserved and recited this sutra and taught it to
others in my previous lives, I would not have swiftly attained highest, complete enlightenment. Because I preserved and recited this sutra and taught it
to others in the presence of previous buddhas, I swiftly attained highest, complete enlightenment.
“O Mahasthamaprapta, then the fourfold assembly of monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen who became angry and disparaged me, did not, as a
consequence, meet a buddha for two hundred ko?is of kalpas, nor did they
267The Lotus Sutra
hear the Dharma or see the Sangha. They suffered greatly in the Avici Hell
for a thousand kalpas. After having been freed from the consequences of
their errors they finally met Bodhisattva Sadaparibhuta, who led and inspired
them to highest, complete enlightenment.
“O Mahasthamaprapta, what do you think about this? Were those in the
fourfold assembly of that time who disparaged this bodhisattva persons
unknown to you? They are the five hundred bodhisattvas in this assembly,
beginning with Bhadrapala, the five hundred nuns beginning with Si?hacandra, and the five hundred laymen beginning with Sugatacetana, all of
whom will never turn back on the path to highest, complete enlightenment.
“O Mahasthamaprapta, know that this Lotus Sutra will greatly benefit
the bodhisattva mahasattvas and lead them to highest, complete enlightenment. For this reason, after the Tathagata’s parinirva?a the bodhisattva
mahasattvas should always preserve, recite, explain, and copy this sutra.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
In the past there was a buddha
Called Bhi?magarjitasvararaja.
He had immeasurable transcendent powers,
Led and guided all sentient beings,
And was paid homage by devas, humans, and nagas.
After the parinirva?a of this buddha,
When the True Dharma faced extinction,
There was a bodhisattva called Sadaparibhuta.
At that time the fourfold assembly
Was becoming attached
To its own interpretation of the Dharma.
Bodhisattva Sadaparibhuta
Would approach them and say:
I do not belittle you;
Practice the path
And you will all become buddhas.
After hearing this,
All the people insulted and disparaged him;
51bChapter XX
But Bodhisattva Sadaparibhuta
Patiently bore this.
As he neared the time of his death,
When he had expiated his past errors,
He was able to hear this sutra,
And his six sense faculties became pure.
Through his transcendent powers
He prolonged his life
And explained this sutra far and wide,
Acting, once again, for the benefit of others.
Those who were attached
To their own interpretations of the Dharma
Were led and inspired by this bodhisattva
And were enabled to abide
Within the buddha path.
After the end of his life,
Bodhisattva Sadaparibhuta
Met innumerable buddhas.
Because he explained this sutra,
He attained immeasurable happiness.
Gradually accumulating his merits,
He quickly attained the buddha path.
The Bodhisattva Sadaparibhuta of that time
Was none other than I.
Because the fourfold assembly,
Which was then attached to
Particular aspects of the Dharma,
Heard Bodhisattva Sadaparibhuta say:
You will all become buddhas,
They have since met innumerable buddhas.
Those people are none other
Than the five hundred bodhisattvas
And laymen and laywomen of pure belief
Who are now gathered before me
269The Lotus Sutra
In this assembly to hear the Dharma.
In my previous lives I taught them
And led them to hear and accept this sutra,
Which is the ultimate Dharma.
I revealed it and taught it to others,
And caused them to abide in nirvana.
Throughout many lifetimes they preserved and kept
A sutra such as this.
Only after myriads of ko?is of ko?is
Of kalpas have passed,
A time inconceivable,
Can they hear this Lotus Sutra.
Only after myriads of ko?is of ko?is
Of kalpas have passed,
A time inconceivable,
Do the Buddha Bhagavats
Expound this sutra.
For this reason, all you practitioners
Who hear this sutra
After the nirvana of the Buddha
Should feel no doubt about it.
You must wholeheartedly
Expound this sutra far and wide.
You will then meet the buddhas lifetime after lifetime
And quickly attain the buddha path.
51cChapter XXI
The Transcendent Powers
of the Tathagata
Thereupon the bodhisattva mahasattvas equal to the number of particles in
the great manifold cosmos, who had emerged from the earth, all in the presence of the Buddha gazed singlemindedly at his face with their palms pressed
together, and spoke to the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat, after the parinirva?a
of the Buddha, we will teach this sutra extensively in the lands of the Bhagavat’s separate forms, at the time of his extinction. Why is this? Because
we also wish to attain this true, pure, great Dharma, and to preserve, recite,
explain, copy, and make offerings to it.”
Then the Bhagavat manifested his great transcendent powers in the presence of Mañjusri and other immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads
of ko?is of bodhisattva mahasattvas who had long lived in this saha world,
such humans and nonhumans as monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen, devas,
nagas, yak?as, gandharvas, asuras, garu?as, ki?naras, and mahoragas.
He put out his wide and long tongue which reached upward to the Brahma
world. He emitted innumerable and immeasurable colored rays of light from
all his pores and universally illuminated the worlds of the ten directions.
All the buddhas sitting on the lion seats under the jeweled trees also put
out their wide and long tongues and emitted immeasurable rays of light in
the same way. Sakyamuni Buddha and the other buddhas under the jeweled
trees manifested transcendent powers while fully hundreds of thousands of
years passed.
After this they drew back their tongues, coughed, and snapped their
fingers together in unison. Those two sounds penetrated throughout the various buddha worlds of the ten directions and the earth quaked in six ways.
Through the transcendent powers of the Buddha, all the sentient beings
in these worlds—humans and such nonhumans as devas, nagas, yak?as, gandharvas, asuras, garu?as, ki?naras, and mahoragas—saw all the buddhas
271The Lotus Sutra
sitting on the lion seats under the immeasurable, limitless hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of jeweled trees in this saha world.
They saw Sakyamuni Buddha sitting on the lion seat in the jeweled
stupa, together with Tathagata Prabhutaratna. They also saw immeasurable,
limitless hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of bodhisattva mahasattvas
and the fourfold assembly respectfully surrounding Sakyamuni Buddha.
After seeing this, they all rejoiced greatly at having attained this unprecedented experience. At the same time all the devas spoke loudly while in the
air, saying: “Beyond these immeasurable, limitless hundreds of thousands
of myriads of ko?is of incalculable worlds, there is a land called Saha. In it
is a buddha called Sakyamuni. For the sake of the bodhisattva mahasattvas
he now teaches the Mahayana sutra called the Lotus Sutra, the instruction
for bodhisattvas and treasured lore of the buddhas. You should rejoice deeply.
You should also honor and pay homage to Sakyamuni Buddha.”
Hearing this voice in the air, all those sentient beings pressed their palms
together, faced the saha world and said: “We take refuge in Sakyamuni
Buddha. We take refuge in Sakyamuni Buddha.”
All of them scattered various kinds of flowers, incense, necklaces, banners, canopies, ornaments, jewels, and other beautiful things over the saha
world from afar. All that had been scattered formed together from the ten
directions like a cloud and was transformed into a jeweled screen that covered all the buddhas. Then the worlds of the ten directions became pellucid,
without obstruction, as if they were one buddha land.
Thereupon the Buddha addressed the great assembly of bodhisattvas,
beginning with Visi??acaritra:
“The transcendent powers of the buddhas are as immeasurable, limitless, and inconceivable as this. Yet if I were to use these transcendent powers to teach the benefits of this sutra so that it would be entrusted to you for
immeasurable, limitless, hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of incalculable kalpas, I would not be able to reach the end of these qualities. To
sum up, in this sutra I have clearly revealed and taught all the teachings of
the Tathagata, all the transcendent powers of the Tathagata, all the treasure
houses of the hidden essence of the Tathagata, and all the profound aspects
of the Tathagata. For this reason, after the parinirva?a of the Tathagata, you
should wholeheartedly preserve, recite, explain, and copy it, and practice
52aChapter XXI
according to the teaching. Those who accept, recite, explain, and copy it,
and practice according to the teaching, in whichever land they may be, in a
place where the sutra abides—either in a garden, a forest, under a tree, in a
monk’s chamber, in a layman’s house, in a palace, on a mountain, in a valley, or in the wilderness—in all of these places they should erect and pay
homage to a monument. Why is this? Because you should know that these
places are the terraces of enlightenment where all the buddhas have attained
highest, complete enlightenment, where all the buddhas have turned the
wheel of the Dharma, and where all the buddhas entered parinirva?a.”
Thereupon the Bhagavat, wanting to elaborate on the meaning of this
further, spoke these verses:
The buddhas, world-inspirers,
Abiding in their great transcendent powers,
Manifest this immeasurable power
In order to gladden sentient beings.
Their tongues reach up to the Brahma world
And they emit innumerable rays of light
From their bodies.
They manifest this marvel
For those who seek for the buddha path.
The coughing and snapping sounds
Of the buddhas are universally heard
In the lands of the ten directions.
The earth quakes in six ways.
Because this sutra can be preserved
After the nirvana of the Buddha,
All the buddhas rejoice and manifest
Their immeasurable transcendent powers.
Even if, for immeasurable kalpas,
They praise those who preserve this sutra,
In order to entrust it,
They will not reach the limit of their merit.
The qualities of those people are
Limitless and endless,
Just like the boundless sky
52bThe Lotus Sutra
In the ten directions.
Those who preserve this sutra
Have already seen me,
The Buddha Prabhutaratna,
And the various magically created forms;
And today they see all the bodhisattvas
I have led and inspired up until now.
Those who preserve this sutra
Will gladden me, my magically created forms,
As well as the Buddha Prabhutaratna
Who has entered nirvana.
They will also see, gladden, and pay homage to
The past and future buddhas, and those who are present
In the ten directions.
Those who preserve this sutra
Will before long attain the Dharma,
The hidden essence,
Which was attained by the buddhas
Seated upon the terrace of enlightenment.
Those who preserve this sutra
Will explain the meaning of the Dharma,
The names and phrases, joyfully and with undying vigor,
Like the wind in the sky
That has no obstruction whatsoever.
After the parinirva?a of the Tathagata,
They will know the causes and conditions
And the sequences of the sutras
Taught by the Buddha,
And will explain the truth
In accordance with its meaning.
As the light of the sun and moon
Eliminates the darkness,
These people practicing in the world
Will extinguish the blindness of sentient beings,
Teaching innumerable bodhisattvas
274Chapter XXI
To dwell ultimately in the single vehicle.
For this reason,
The wise, hearing of the benefits of these merits,
Should preserve this sutra
After my nirvana.
Those people will be resolute and will
Unwaveringly follow the buddha path.
52cChapter XXII
Entrustment
Thereupon, having arisen from the Dharma seat and manifested his great
transcendent powers, Sakyamuni Buddha caressed the heads of the innumerable bodhisattva mahasattvas with his right hand, and addressed them,
saying: “For immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of
incalculable kalpas, I practiced this Dharma of highest, complete enlightenment, which is hard to attain. I now entrust it to you. You should wholeheartedly spread this teaching and so extensively benefit others.”
Having caressed the heads of the bodhisattva mahasattvas three times in
this way, he further addressed them, saying: “For immeasurable hundreds of
thousands of myriads of ko?is of incalculable kalpas, I practiced this Dharma
of highest, complete enlightenment, which is hard to attain. I now entrust it
to you. You should preserve and recite it. You should spread this teaching
extensively. You should let all the sentient beings hear and know it. Why is
this? Because with his great compassion, unstinting and unafraid, the Tatha-
gata gives the wisdom of the Buddha, the wisdom of the Tathagata, and the
knowledge of the self-arising one to the sentient beings. The Tathagata is
nothing but the great donor to all the sentient beings. You should accordingly
practice the teaching of the Tathagata. Never allow the thought of avarice to
awaken in you! If there are sons and daughters of a virtuous family who believe
in the wisdom of the Tathagata in the future, you should expound this Lotus
Sutra; and let them hear and know it so that they may attain the wisdom of
the Buddha. If there are sentient beings who do not accept it, you should
reveal, teach, benefit, and gladden them with the other profound teachings of
the Tathagata. If you do this, you will repay your indebtedness to the Buddha.”
Having heard the Buddha teach this, all the bodhisattva mahasattvas
were filled with joy, inclined their bodies, bowed their heads with increased
respect, and, with their palms pressed together, faced the buddhas and uttered
these words: “We will certainly do as the Bhagavat directs us. O Bhagavat,
we entreat you to feel no anxiety.”
277The Lotus Sutra
All the bodhisattva mahasattvas uttered these words three times in this
way, saying: “We will do as the Bhagavat directs us. O Bhagavat, we entreat
you to feel no anxiety.”
At that time, in order to cause all the buddhas who were his magically
created forms and who had come from the ten directions to return to their
own lands, Sakyamuni Buddha said this: “All the buddhas should be at ease.
The Buddha Prabhutaratna will be restored as before.”
When he said this, all the innumerable buddhas in their magically created forms from the ten directions sitting on the lion seats under the jeweled
trees, the Buddha Prabhutaratna, the great assembly of the limitless and incalculable bodhisattvas beginning with Visi??acaritra, the fourfold assemblies
of the sravakas beginning with Sariputra, and the devas, humans, and asuras
in all the worlds, having heard what the Buddha had taught, rejoiced greatly.
53aChapter XXIII
Ancient Accounts of
Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja
Thereupon Bodhisattva Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña addressed the Buddha,
saying: “O Bhagavat, why does Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja wander in this
saha world? O Bhagavat, this Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja has performed hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of nayutas of difficult and arduous
practices. Splendid, O Bhagavat! I entreat you to explain it even a little, so
that all the devas, nagas, yak?as, gandharvas, asuras, garu?as, ki?naras,
mahoragas, humans, and nonhumans, and also the assemblies of the bodhisattvas who have come from the other lands and these sravakas, will rejoice
on hearing it.”
Then the Buddha spoke to Bodhisattva Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña,
saying: “In the remote past, beyond kalpas as immeasurable as the sands of
the Ganges River, there was a buddha called Candrasuryavimalaprabhasasri,
an Arhat, Completely Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, WellDeparted, Knower of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans, Teacher
of Devas and Humans, Buddha, Bhagavat. With this buddha were eighty
ko?is of great bodhisattva mahasattvas and an assembly of great sravakas,
as many as the sands of seventy-two Ganges Rivers. The lifespan of this
buddha was forty-two thousand kalpas, and the lifespans of the bodhisattvas
were also equal to this. In his land there were no women, no hell-dwellers,
no hungry ghosts, no animals, no asuras, and no calamities. The land was
level like the palm of one’s hand and was made of lapis lazuli. It was adorned
with jeweled trees, and was covered with jeweled canopies with various
hanging, flowered banners. This world was filled with jeweled vases and
incense burners. There were platforms made of the seven treasures. For each
tree there was a platform, and each tree stood away from the platform a distance of no more than a bow-shot. All the bodhisattvas and sravakas sat under
these jeweled trees. On the top of every jeweled platform were hundreds of
ko?is of devas who played divine music and sang in praise and homage to the
279The Lotus Sutra
Buddha. Then the Buddha expounded the Lotus Sutra for Bodhisattva Sarvarupasa?darsana and numerous other bodhisattvas and sravakas. Bodhisattva
Sarvarupasa?darsana devoted himself entirely to severe practices. Following the teachings of the Buddha Candrasuryavimalaprabhasasri, he strove and
wandered up and down in the singleminded search for enlightenment for a
full twelve thousand years; and he attained the samadhi called sarvarupasa?-
darsana. After having attained this samadhi, he rejoiced a great deal and
thought thus:
I have attained the samadhi called sarvarupasa?darsana entirely
because of the power I attained through hearing the Lotus Sutra. I will
now pay homage to the Buddha Candrasuryavimalaprabhasasri and
the Lotus Sutra.
“Immediately after he had entered this samadhi, mandarava and great
mandarava flowers and finely powdered solid and black sandalwood fell
from the sky, filling the air like clouds and raining down upon the earth. It
also rained the perfume of sandalwood from the inner seacoast of Mount
Sumeru. With this quantity of perfume, six drams of which equal the worth
of this saha world, he paid homage to the Buddha. Having paid homage to
the Buddha, he emerged from samadhi and thought this:
I have paid homage to the Buddha using my transcendent power. This
is, however, by no means equal to the tribute of offering my body.
“For a full one thousand two hundred years, he inhaled the fragrance of
sandalwood, olibanum, frankincense, clove, aloeswood, and glue trees and
drank the fragrant oil of campaka flowers. He then anointed his body with
scented ointment. In the presence of the Buddha Candrasuryavimalaprabhasasri he covered his body with a divine jeweled garment and with the fragrant oil. Through his transcendent power and vows he set his body alight,
which illuminated worlds equal in number to the sands of eighty ko?is of
Ganges Rivers. At the same time all the buddhas in these worlds praised
him, saying:
Splendid, splendid, O son of a virtuous family! This is the true perseverance. This is called the true Dharma offering to the Tathagata. It
53bChapter XXIII
stands no comparison, even if one were to pay tribute with flowers,
perfumes, necklaces, burning incense, scented powders, ointments,
divine silk banners, canopies, perfumes of sandalwood from the inner
seacoast of Mount Sumeru, and various other things like this. It stands
no comparison, even if one were to offer one’s kingdom or wife and
children. O son of a virtuous family, this is the supreme offering. This
is the highest and best of all offerings, because you offer the Dharma
to the Tathagatas.
“Having spoken these words, all became silent. His body was alight for
one thousand two hundred years. After this period passed, his body burned
out. Because he had paid tribute to the Dharma like this, Bodhisattva Sarvarupasa?darsana was reborn after his death in the land of the Buddha Candrasuryavimalaprabhasasri. He was born spontaneously, sitting cross-legged in
the house of King Vimaladatta.
“Then he immediately spoke these verses for the sake of his father,
saying:
O Great King! You should now know
That I, in an instant, attained
The samadhi called sarvarupasa?darsana
In the place where I wandered;
And, practicing with enthusiasm and perseverance,
I set aside this, my beloved body.
I have paid homage to the Bhagavat
In order to attain the utmost wisdom.
“After having spoken these verses, he addressed his father, saying:
The Buddha Candrasuryavimalaprabhasasri is now in this world. Having previously paid homage to the Buddha, I attained the dhara?i of
understanding the speech of all sentient beings and heard eight hundred thousands of myriads of ko?is of nayutas of verses and tens of
billions of verses, hundreds of billions of verses and thousands of billions of verses of the Lotus Sutra. O Great King, I will now once again
pay homage to this buddha.
53cThe Lotus Sutra
“Having spoken this, he sat on the seven-jeweled platform and ascended
into the air as high as seven tala trees. Having come before the Buddha, he
bowed until his forehead touched the Buddha’s feet. He praised the Buddha
in verse with his ten fingers pressed together, saying:
Your countenance is rare and wonderful.
Your brilliance illuminates the ten directions.
Once, long ago, I paid you homage.
I now come to behold you again.
“Thereupon Bodhisattva Sarvarupasa?darsana, having spoken this verse,
addressed the Buddha, saying:
O Bhagavat! The Bhagavat is yet in this world!
“Then the Buddha Candrasuryavimalaprabhasasri said to Bodhisattva
Sarvarupasa?darsana:
O son of a virtuous family! The time of my parinirva?a has come. The
time of extinction has come. I ask you now to prepare my bed. I will
enter parinirva?a tonight.
“The Buddha said again to Bodhisattva Sarvarupasa?darsana:
O son of a virtuous family! I entrust you with the Buddha-Dharma,
and all the bodhisattvas and great sravakas as well as the Dharma for
highest, complete enlightenment. I will also entrust you with the sevenjeweled world, all the jeweled trees, jeweled platforms, and the devas
who are my servants in the great manifold cosmos. After my parinirva?a I will also entrust you with all my relics. You should distribute them far and wide and pay them homage. You should also erect a
great many thousands of stupas.
“Having addressed Bodhisattva Sarvarupasa?darsana in this way, the
Buddha Candrasuryavimalaprabhasasri entered parinirva?a in the last watch
of that night.
“Thereupon, having seen the Buddha’s parinirva?a, Bodhisattva Sarvarupasa?darsana was grieved and saddened, and longed and yearned for the
Buddha. Having prepared a pyre with sandalwood from the inner seacoast
282Chapter XXIII
of Mount Sumeru, he cremated the Buddha’s body in homage. After the fire
had gone out, he collected all the relics. He had eighty-four thousand jeweled urns made and erected eighty-four thousand stupas as high as three
worlds. They were adorned with poles from which hung all kinds of banners and canopies and various kinds of jeweled bells.
“Then Bodhisattva Sarvarupasa?darsana thought this:
Although I have paid tribute in this way, I am not yet satisfied. I will
now further pay homage to the relics.
“Then he spoke to all the great assemblies of bodhisattvas, great sra-
vakas, devas, nagas, and yak?as, saying:
You should pay full attention: I will now pay homage to the relics of
the Buddha Candrasuryavimalaprabhasasri.
“Having said these words, he made an offering before the eighty-four
thousand stupas by burning his arms adorned with hundreds of merits for
seventy-two thousand years. He thus made innumerable sravakas and immeasurable, incalculable people set forth toward highest, complete enlightenment.
All of them were made to dwell in the samadhi called sarvarupasa?darsana.
“At that time all the bodhisattvas, devas, humans, and asuras saw that
his arms were missing and became grieved and distressed. They said:
This Bodhisattva Sarvarupasa?darsana is our teacher. He has led and
inspired us. He has now burned his arms, and his body is deformed.
“Then Bodhisattva Sarvarupasa?darsana made a vow and said to the
great assembly:
I have abandoned both my arms, and I shall definitely attain the golden
body of the Buddha. If this is true and not false, then may both arms
be restored as before.
“Because this bodhisattva was endowed with profound merit and wisdom, after he had made this vow his arms recovered spontaneously. At that
very time the great manifold cosmos quaked in six ways. It rained jeweled
flowers from the heavens and all the devas and humans experienced an
unprecedented marvel.”
54aThe Lotus Sutra
The Buddha addressed Bodhisattva Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña,
saying: “What do you think about this? Is Bodhisattva Sarvarupasa?darsana
someone unknown to you? He is none other than this Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja. He undertook the practice of giving by abandoning his body immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of nayutas of times in this
way. O Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña! If there is anyone who sets forth
and wishes to attain highest, complete enlightenment, he should pay homage to the stupas of the Buddha by burning either a finger or a toe. He is
superior to those who pay homage by giving their countries and cities, their
wives and children, or the mountains, forests, rivers, ponds, and many other
rare treasures.
“If there is anyone who pays homage to all the buddhas, great bodhisattvas,
pratyekabuddhas, and arhats by filling the great manifold cosmos with the seven
precious treasures, the merit of this person will not be equal to the surpassing
merit of one who receives and holds to even a single verse consisting of four
lines of the Lotus Sutra.
“O Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña! Just as the ocean is the greatest of
streams and rivers and of all waters, this Lotus Sutra is the most profound of
the sutras taught by the Tathagatas. Just as Mount Sumeru is the greatest of
mountains—greater than Earth Mountain, Black Mountain, Mount Cakrava?a,
Mount Mahacakrava?a, and the ten jeweled mountains—this Lotus Sutra is
the greatest of the sutras. Just as the moon is the greatest among all the stars,
this Lotus Sutra is the most illuminating of the thousands of ko?is of sutras.
Just as the sun destroys darkness, in the same way this sutra destroys the darkness of erring thought. Just as the noble emperor is the best of all the kings,
this sutra is the noblest of all the sutras. Just as Sakra is the king of the thirtythree devas, this sutra is the King of Sutras. Just as Great Brahma is the father
of all the sentient beings, in the same way this sutra is the father of all the
wise, the noble, those who have more to learn and those who do not, and those
in whom the thought of enlightenment has awakened. Just as those who have
entered the stream of the teaching (srota-apannas), those who are to return
to this world once again (sak?dagamins), those who are never to return (anaga-
mins), arhats, and pratyekabuddhas are the best of all the common people, in
the same way this is the best of all the sutras taught by all the Tathagatas,
bodhisattvas, or sravakas.
54bChapter XXIII
“Those who hold to this sutra are the best of all sentient beings. The bodhisattvas are the best of all sravakas and pratyekabuddhas. In the same way, this
sutra is the best of all sutras. Just as the Buddha is the King of the Dharma, this
sutra is the King of Sutras.
“O Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña! This sutra saves all sentient beings.
This sutra makes all sentient beings free from suffering. This sutra greatly
benefits all sentient beings and brings their aspirations to fulfillment, just as
a clear, cool pond satisfies the thirsty, as a fire satisfies those suffering from
cold, as clothes for the naked, as a caravan leader for merchants, as a mother
for her children, as a boat for the traveler, as a physician for the sick, as a
lamp for the gloom, as a treasure for the poor, as a king for the people, as the
sea for traders, and a torch for those in darkness. In the same way, this Lotus
Sutra frees sentient beings from every suffering, all the pains and bonds of
illness and of birth and death. If there is anyone who hears this Lotus Sutra,
copies it, or moves others to copy it, their merit will be limitless even if it is
measured through the Buddha’s wisdom. If there is anyone who copies it
and pays it tribute with flowers, perfumes, necklaces, burning incense, scented
powders, fragrant ointments, banners, canopies, clothes, various kinds of
ghee lamps, oil lamps, fragrant oil lamps, lamps of oil made from campaka,
sumanas, pa?ala, var?ika, and navamalika trees, that person’s merit will also
be immeasurable.
“O Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña! If there is anyone who hears this
chapter ‘Ancient Accounts of Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja,’ they will attain
immeasurable and limitless merit. If there is any woman who hears and holds
to this chapter ‘Ancient Accounts of Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja,’ she will
never be reborn with a female body. If there is any woman five hundred years
after the parinirva?a of the Tathagata who hears this sutra and practices
according to the teaching, she will immediately reach the dwelling of the
Buddha Amitayus in the Sukhavati world, surrounded by great bodhisattvas,
and will be born on a jeweled seat in a lotus flower. Never again troubled
by the [three poisons] of greed, anger, or ignorance, by arrogance or jealousy, he will attain the bodhisattva’s transcendent powers and the acceptance of the nonorigination of all dharmas. After attaining this acceptance,
his faculty of sight will be pure; and with this pure eye faculty, he will see all
the Buddha Tathagatas, equal in number to the sands of seventy-two million
54cThe Lotus Sutra
ko?is of nayutas of Ganges Rivers. At that time all the buddhas will praise
him from afar, saying:
Splendid! Splendid! Son of a virtuous family! You have preserved,
recited, and contemplated this sutra from the teachings of the Buddha
Sakyamuni and taught it to others. The merit you have obtained is
immeasurable and limitless. Even fire cannot burn it. Even water cannot wash it away. Even thousands of buddhas cannot give a complete
description of your merit. You have already destroyed the maras. You
have already conquered the armies of birth and death. You have defeated
all enemies. O son of a virtuous family! Hundreds of thousands of
buddhas together protect you with their transcendent powers. There is
no one equal to you among the devas and humans of the entire world.
With the exception of the Tathagata, the wisdom and meditation of all
sravakas, pratyekabuddhas, and bodhisattvas can never equal yours.
“O Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña! Such is the power of the merit and
wisdom that this bodhisattva has perfected. If there is anyone who hears this
chapter ‘Ancient Accounts of Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja,’ rejoices in it, and
praises it well, in his present life he will always exhale the fragrance of blue
lotus flowers from his mouth and will always emit the fragrance of the sandalwood on Mount Oxhead from his pores. The benefits of the qualities he
has obtained are just as mentioned above. For this reason, O Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña, I will entrust you with this chapter ‘Ancient Accounts
of Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja.’ During the period of five hundred years after
my parinirva?a you must spread it far and wide in Jambudvipa and not allow
it to be destroyed. You must not give Mara and his men, or the devas, nagas,
yak?as, and kumbha??a demons any chance of destroying it. O Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña! You should protect this sutra with your transcendent
power. Why is this? Because this sutra is good medicine for the ills of the
people of Jambudvipa. If there is any sick person who hears this sutra, his
illness will disappear, and he will neither die nor grow old. O Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña! If you see anyone who holds to this sutra, you should
scatter blue lotus flowers full of scented powder on him. After scattering
them, you should think like this:
286Chapter XXIII
This man will before long destroy the army of Mara, sitting on the
grass-covered terrace of enlightenment. He will blow the conch of the
Dharma, beat the drum of the great Dharma, and ferry all sentient
beings across the ocean of old age, illness, and death.
“Therefore, if those seeking the buddha path see those who hold to this
sutra, the thought of respect should awaken in them.”
When this chapter, “Ancient Accounts of Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja,”
was being taught, eighty-four thousand bodhisattvas attained the dhara?i of
understanding the speech of all sentient beings. The Tathagata Prabhutaratna
in the jeweled stupa praised Bodhisattva Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña,
saying: “Splendid! Splendid! O Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña! You have
attained marvelous merit, for you have questioned the Buddha Sakyamuni
about these things and benefited all of the immeasurable numbers of sentient
beings.”
55aChapter XXIV
Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara
Thereupon, the Buddha Sakyamuni emitted a ray of light from his topknot
(u??i?a), the mark of a great person, and also from the tuft of white hair
between his eyebrows (ur?a), thus illuminating all the buddha worlds in the
east equal to the sands of one hundred and eight myriads of ko?is of nayutas
of Ganges Rivers. Beyond this number of worlds was the buddha world called
Vairocanarasmipratima??ita. In that world was the buddha named Kamaladalavimalanak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely
Enlightened, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Departed, Knower
of the World, Unsurpassed, Tamer of Humans, Teacher of Devas and Humans,
Buddha, Bhagavat. He was respectfully surrounded by a great assembly of
countless, innumerable bodhisattvas, and he expounded his teaching for them.
The ray of light emitted from the tuft of white hair between the eyebrows of
Sakyamuni Buddha illuminated that entire world.
At that time, in the buddha world of Vairocanarasmipratima??ita there
was a bodhisattva whose name was Gadgadasvara (Wonderful Voice). Having planted many roots of good merit over a long period, he paid homage to
and closely attended immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is
of buddhas, and accomplished complete and profound wisdom. He attained
the samadhis called dhvajagrakeyura, saddharmapu??arika, vimaladatta,
nak?atrarajavikri?ita, anilambha, jñanamudra, sarvarutakausalya, sarvapu?yasamuccaya, prasadavati, ?ddhivikri?ita, jñanolka, vyuharaja, vimalaprabhasa, vimalagarbha, apk?tsna, and suryavarta. He thus attained great
samadhis equal in number to the sands of hundreds of thousands of myriads
of ko?is of Ganges Rivers. As the light of the Buddha Sakyamuni illuminated
his body, he addressed the Buddha Kamaladalavimalanak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña, saying: “O Bhagavat! I shall go to the saha world, approach the
Buddha Sakyamuni in homage and reverence, and see Bodhisattva Mañjusri,
the Prince of the Dharma, as well as Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja, Bodhisattva
55bThe Lotus Sutra
Pradanasura, Bodhisattva Nak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña, Bodhisattva
Visi??acaritra, Bodhisattva Vyuharaja, and Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyasamudgata.”
Then the Buddha Kamaladalavimalanak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña
addressed Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara, saying: “You must not despise that
world nor think it inferior. O son of a virtuous family! The land of that saha
world is uneven and irregular and is filled with mud, stones, mountains, and
filth. The Buddha is short of body, as are the bodhisattvas. By contrast, your
body is forty-two thousand yojanas tall, and my body is six million eight
hundred thousand yojanas tall. Your body is perfect in its bearing and illuminated most beautifully with hundreds of millions of merits. Yet, when you
go there you must not despise that country nor think the Buddha, bodhisattvas, or the world itself inferior.”
The Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara addressed the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! I am now going to the saha world through the power of the Tatha-
gata, the carefree play of the transcendent powers of the Tathagata, and the
adornment of the qualities and wisdom of the Tathagata.”
At that time Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara, without rising from his seat or
moving his body, entered samadhi. Through the power of the samadhi he
caused eighty-four thousand jeweled lotus flowers to appear on Mount
G?dhraku?a, not far from the seat of the Dharma. The stems were made of
Jambunada gold, the leaves of silver, the pistils of diamond, and the calyces
of ruby.
On seeing these lotus flowers, Bodhisattva Mañjusri, the Prince of the
Dharma, addressed the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! Why has this marvel
appeared? There are a great many millions of lotus flowers, whose stems are
made of Jambunada gold, leaves of silver, pistils of diamond, and calyces
of ruby.”
The Buddha Sakyamuni answered Mañjusri, saying: “The Bodhisattva
Gadgadasvara wishes to come to this saha world from the buddha world
called Kamaladalavimalanak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña, together with
eighty-four thousand bodhisattvas as his retinue. He approaches me in homage and reverence, wishing to make offerings and to hear the Lotus Sutra.”
Mañjusri asked the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! What roots of good
merit has he planted, and what merits has he practiced to attain his great transcendent powers? What kind of samadhi has he practiced? I entreat you to
55cChapter XXIV
tell us the name of this samadhi. We wish to practice it with diligence. By
practicing this samadhi we wish to see the shape, appearance, size, and manner of this bodhisattva. I entreat you, O Bhagavat, to use your transcendent
powers and let us see the appearance of that bodhisattva.”
Then, the Buddha Sakyamuni spoke to Mañjusri, saying: “The Tatha-
gata Prabhutaratna, who long ago entered parinirva?a, will manifest the
signs for you.”
At that time the Buddha Prabhutaratna addressed that bodhisattva, saying: “Come, O son of a virtuous family! Mañjusri, the Prince of the Dharma,
wishes to see you.”
Thereupon Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara disappeared from his world and
arrived together with eighty-four thousand bodhisattvas. In the worlds through
which he passed, the land quaked in six ways, seven-jeweled lotus flowers
rained everywhere, and hundreds of thousands of heavenly musical instruments sounded spontaneously without being played. The eyes of this bodhisattva were as large as blue lotus leaves. Even if hundreds of thousands of
myriads of moons were gathered together they would not exceed the beauty
of his countenance. His body was pure gold in color, adorned with immeasurable hundreds of thousands of merits, radiant with virtuous dignity, and
brilliantly illuminated like the adamantine body of the god Naraya?a. Having entered the seven-jeweled platform and ascended into the air, he flew
above the earth at a height of seven tala trees. Surrounded by respectful
bodhisattvas, he arrived at Mount G?dhraku?a in this saha world and descended
from the seven-jeweled terrace. He came before the Buddha Sakyamuni with
a necklace worth hundreds of thousands in his hand and bowed until his forehead reached the Buddha’s feet. He presented the necklace to the Buddha,
saying: “O Bhagavat! The Buddha Kamaladalavimalanak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña inquires of the Bhagavat:
Are you without illness or pain? Is your daily life pleasant? Are you at
ease in practice? Is the world around you harmonious? Are your worldly
affairs bearable? Is it easy to save sentient beings? Are they not filled
with greed, anger, foolishness, avarice, and pride? Are they mindful of
their parents? Do they respect srama?as? Do they not have false views
or erring thoughts? Do they control the desires of their five senses? O
Bhagavat! Do the sentient beings conquer maras? Has the Tathagata
291The Lotus Sutra
Prabhutaratna sitting in the seven-jeweled stupa long after his parinirva?a
come here to hear the Dharma?
Furthermore, he inquired of the Tathagata Prabhutaratna, saying: “Are
you at ease and without pain? O Bhagavat! Will your life be long and endured
with patience? I now wish to see the body of the Buddha Prabhutaratna. I
entreat you, O Bhagavat, to manifest and show it to me.”
At that time the Buddha Sakyamuni said to the Buddha Prabhutaratna:
“This Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara wants to see you.”
Then, the Buddha Prabhutaratna addressed Gadgadasvara, saying: “Splendid! Splendid! You have paid homage to the Buddha Sakyamuni and heard
the Lotus Sutra, and have come here in order to see Mañjusri and others.”
Thereupon Bodhisattva Padmasri addressed the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! What roots of good merit has this Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara planted,
and what merits has he practiced to attain these transcendent powers?”
The Buddha answered Bodhisattva Padmasri, saying: “In the past there
was the Buddha called Meghadundubhisvararaja, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened. His world was called Sarvarupasa?darsana and the kalpa
was called Priyadarsana. For a period of twelve thousand years Bodhisattva
Gadgadasvara paid homage to the Buddha Meghadundubhisvararaja with a
hundred thousand kinds of music and eighty-four thousand seven-jeweled
bowls. As a result of his deeds he was born in the world of the Buddha Kamaladalavimalanak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña and has attained his transcendent
powers. O Padmasri! What do you think about this? Is Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara, who paid homage to the Buddha Meghadundubhisvararaja with music
and jeweled vessels, someone unknown? Bodhisattva Mahasattva Gadgadasvara here present is one and the same. O Padmasri! Having closely and
respectfully attended innumerable buddhas and planted roots of good merit
over a long time, this Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara met hundreds of thousands
of myriads of ko?is of nayutas of buddhas equal in number to the sands of the
Ganges River. O Padmasri! You think that the body of Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara exists only here; however, this bodhisattva manifests himself in various bodies. He has thus taught this sutra in many places for the sake of the
sentient beings. Sometimes he has appeared in the form of Brahma. Sometimes he has appeared in the form of Sakra. Sometimes he has appeared in
56aChapter XXIV
the form of Isvara. Sometimes he has appeared in the form of Mahesvara.
Sometimes he has appeared in the form of the great commander of the devas.
Sometimes he has appeared in the form of Vaisrava?a. Sometimes he has
appeared in the form of a noble emperor. Sometimes he has appeared in the
form of a minor king. Sometimes he has appeared in the form of a wealthy
man. Sometimes he has appeared in the form of a householder. Sometimes
he has appeared in the form of a state official. Sometimes he has appeared in
the form of a brahman. Sometimes he has appeared in the form of a monk, nun,
layman, or laywoman. Sometimes he has appeared in the form of the wife of
a wealthy man or a householder. Sometimes he has appeared in the form of
the wife of a state official. Sometimes he has appeared in the form of the wife
of a brahman. Sometimes he has appeared in the form of a boy or a girl. Sometimes he has appeared in the form of a human, or a nonhuman such as a deva,
naga, yak?a, gandharva, asura, garu?a, ki?nara, or mahoraga.
“In this way he has expounded this sutra and saved those in the states
of being of hell-dwellers, hungry ghosts, animals, and those in difficult circumstances. Sometimes he has transformed himself into a female in royal
harems and taught this sutra. O Padmasri! This Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara
saves all sentient beings in the saha world. This Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara
has transformed himself into various forms and taught this sutra for the sake
of all sentient beings. Nevertheless, his transcendent power has never
decreased, nor his power of transformation or his wisdom. This bodhisattva
illuminates the saha world with his great wisdom and causes every sentient
being to attain what should be known. He does exactly the same in all the
worlds of the ten directions, which are equal in number to the sands of the
Ganges River. If he is able to save them in the form of a sravaka, he teaches
the Dharma by changing himself into the form of a sravaka. If he is able to
save them in the form of a pratyekabuddha, he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the form of a pratyekabuddha. If he is able to save them in
the form of a bodhisattva, he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into
the form of a bodhisattva. If he is able to save them in the form of a buddha,
he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the form of a buddha. Thus
he transforms himself in various ways according to the capacities of those
who are to be saved. If he is able to save them by means of parinirva?a, he
manifests parinirva?a to them. O Padmasri! Bodhisattva Mahasattva
56bThe Lotus Sutra
Gadgadasvara has achieved his transcendent powers and the power of wisdom in just such a manner.”
Thereupon, Bodhisattva Padmasri addressed the Buddha, saying: “O
Bhagavat! Deep are the roots of good merit that this Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara has planted! O Bhagavat! In what samadhi did this bodhisattva dwell,
such that he was able to appear in various places in this way, and bring sentient beings to the path?”
The Buddha answered Bodhisattva Padmasri, saying: “O son of a virtuous family! That samadhi was called sarvarupasa?darsana. Dwelling in
this samadhi, Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara has benefited innumerable sentient
beings in this way.”
When this chapter “Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara,” was being taught, those
eighty-four thousand people who had come with Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara
attained the samadhi called sarvarupasa?darsana. Innumerable bodhisattvas
in this saha world also attained this samadhi and dhara?i. Then Bodhisattva
Mahasattva Gadgadasvara paid homage to the Buddha Sakyamuni and the
stupa of the Buddha Prabhutaratna and returned to his own world.
Those worlds through which he traveled quaked in six ways and it rained
jeweled lotus flowers. Hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of variegated music was heard. Having returned to his own world, he approached
the Buddha Kamaladalavimalanak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña, surrounded
by eighty-four thousand bodhisattvas, and said to him: “O Bhagavat! I have
been to the saha world and benefited the sentient beings. Having seen the
Buddha Sakyamuni and the stupa of the Buddha Prabhutaratna, I paid homage to them and made them offerings. Having seen Bodhisattva Mañjusri,
the Prince of the Dharma, Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja, Bodhisattva Viryabalavegaprapta, and Bodhisattva Pradanasura, I caused these eighty-four
thousand bodhisattvas to attain the samadhi called sarvarupasa?darsana.”
When this chapter, “The Coming and Going of Bodhisattva Gadgadasvara,” was taught, forty-two thousand sons of the devas attained the acceptance of the nonorigination of all dharmas; and Bodhisattva Padmasri attained
the saddharmapu??arika samadhi.
56c295
Chapter XXV
The Gateway to Every Direction
[Manifested by
Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara]
Thereupon arising from his seat with his right shoulder bared, Bodhisattva
Ak?ayamati faced the Buddha with his palms pressed together, and spoke
thus to him: “O Bhagavat! For what reason is Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara
(Hearer of the Sounds of the World) called Avalokitesvara?”
The Buddha answered Bodhisattva Ak?ayamati, saying: “O son of a virtuous family! If innumerable hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of
sentient beings who experience suffering hear of Bodhisattva Avalokites-
vara and wholeheartedly chant his name, Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara will
immediately perceive their voices and free them from their suffering. Even
if those who hold to the name of Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara were to enter
a great fire, because of this bodhisattva’s transcendent power, the fire would
not be able to burn them. If they were adrift on the great waters, by chanting his name they would reach the shallows. There are hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of sentient beings who enter the great ocean to seek
such treasures as gold, silver, lapis lazuli, mother-of-pearl, agate, coral,
amber, and pearl. Even if a cyclone were to blow the ship of one of these
toward the land of rak?asa demons, they would all become free from the
danger of those rak?asa demons if there were even a single person among
them who chanted the name of Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara. For this reason
he is called Avalokitesvara.
“If anyone who is about to be beaten chants the name of Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara, the sticks and swords will immediately be broken into pieces and
he will be delivered. If the yak?as and rak?asas filling the great manifold cosmos come with the intent to afflict the people but hear them chanting, those
demons’ evil eyes will be unable to see them, so how could they possibly hurt
them?The Lotus Sutra
“If anyone, whether guilty or innocent, is bound with fetters or chains,
such bonds will be broken into pieces; and those who have been bound will
become free by chanting the name of Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara. When a
caravan leader travels on a dangerous road together with his fellow merchants, carrying precious treasures in a great manifold cosmos filled with
evil robbers, if there be a single person who says:
O sons of a virtuous family! Do not fear! You should wholeheartedly
chant the name of Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara. This bodhisattva bestows
fearlessness upon sentient beings. If you chant his name, you will be
free from these evil robbers.
“Now, if those merchants chant loudly in unison, saying:
Homage to Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara!
“Then, by chanting his name, the caravan will immediately gain deliverance. O Ak?ayamati! The transcendent power of Bodhisattva Mahasattva
Avalokitesvara is as great and mighty as this.
“If there are any sentient beings who are greatly subject to sensual desires,
if they contemplate Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara with respect, they will become
free from these desires. If there are any sentient beings who often become
angry, if they contemplate Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara with respect, they will
become free from anger. If there are any sentient beings who are greatly confused, if they contemplate Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara with respect, they will
become free from their confusion. O Ak?ayamati! Thus Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara greatly benefits sentient beings through his transcendent power. For
this reason sentient beings should always turn their thoughts to him.
“If any woman wanting to have a baby boy pays homage and makes
offerings to Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara, she will bear a baby boy endowed
with good merit and wisdom. If she wants to have a baby girl, she will bear
a beautiful and handsome baby girl who has planted roots of good merit and
will have the love of sentient beings. O Ak?ayamati! Such are the transcendent powers of Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara that if any sentient being reverently respects him, the merit they achieve will never be in vain. For this reason sentient beings should hold to the name of Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara.
O Ak?ayamati! What do you think of someone who holds to the names of the
57aChapter XXV
bodhisattvas equal in number to the sands of sixty-two ko?is of Ganges Rivers
and pays homage to them with drink and food, clothes, bedding, and medicine. Is the merit of this son or daughter of a virtuous family great or not?”
Ak?ayamati answered, saying: “O Bhagavat! It is great.”
The Buddha said: “If there is anyone who holds to the name of Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara and anyone who pays homage to him and makes offerings even for a moment, the merit of these two people will be equal and the
same; it will never be extinguished after hundreds of thousands of myriads of
ko?is of kalpas. O Ak?ayamati! Those who hold to the name of Bodhisattva
Avalokitesvara will attain such benefits of immeasurable and limitless merit.”
The Bodhisattva Ak?ayamati addressed the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! How does Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara wander through this saha
world? How does he teach the Dharma for the sake of sentient beings? What
of his power of skillful means?”
The Buddha said to Bodhisattva Ak?ayamati: “O son of a virtuous family! If there is any land where sentient beings are to be saved by the form of
a buddha, Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the form of a buddha. To those who are to be saved by the form of
a pratyekabuddha, he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the form
of a pratyekabuddha. To those who are to be saved by the form of a sravaka,
he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the form of a sravaka. To
those who are to be saved by the form of Brahma, he teaches the Dharma
by changing himself into the form of Brahma. To those who are to be saved
by the form of Sakra, he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the
form of Sakra. To those who are to be saved by the form of Isvara, he teaches
the Dharma by changing himself into the form of Isvara. To those who are
to be saved in the form of Mahesvara, he teaches the Dharma by changing
himself into the form of Mahesvara. To those who are to be saved by the
form of the great commander of the devas, he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the form of the great commander of the devas. To those who
are to be saved by the form of Vaisrava?a, he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the form of Vaisrava?a. To those who are to be saved by
the form of a minor king, he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into
the form of a minor king. To those who are to be saved by the form of a
wealthy man, he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the form of
57bThe Lotus Sutra
a wealthy man. To those who are to be saved by the form of a householder,
he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the form of a householder.
To those who are to be saved by the form of a state official, he teaches the
Dharma by changing himself into the form of a state official. To those who
are to be saved by the form of a brahman, he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the form of a brahman. To those who are to be saved by the
form of a monk, nun, layman, or laywoman, he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the form of a monk, nun, layman, or laywoman. To those
who are to be saved by the form of a wife of either a wealthy man, a householder, a state official, or a brahman, he teaches the Dharma by changing
himself into the form of such a wife. To those who are to be saved by the
form of a boy or a girl, he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the
form of a boy or a girl. To those who are to be saved by the form of a human
or of a nonhuman such as a deva, naga, yak?a, gandharva, asura, garu?a,
ki?nara, or mahoraga, he teaches the Dharma by changing himself into any
of these forms. To those who are to be saved by the form of Vajrapa?i, he
teaches the Dharma by changing himself into the form of Vajrapa?i.
“O Ak?ayamati! This Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara displays such qualities, wanders through many lands in various forms, and saves sentient beings.
For this reason you should wholeheartedly pay homage to Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara. This Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara bestows fearlessness in times of
fearful calamity. For this reason everybody in this saha world calls him Abhaya?-
dada (Giver of Fearlessness).
The Bodhisattva Ak?ayamati addressed the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! I shall now pay homage to Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara.”
He then took from his neck a many-jeweled necklace worth hundreds
of thousands of gold coins, gave it to him, and said: “I entreat you to accept
this rare-jeweled necklace for the Dharma.”
At that time Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara did not dare to receive it. Ak?ayamati addressed Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara, saying: “I entreat you to accept
this necklace out of pity for us.”
Then the Buddha said to Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara: “You should accept
this necklace out of pity for such humans and nonhumans as this Bodhisattva
Ak?ayamati, the fourfold assembly, devas, nagas, yak?as, gandharvas, asuras,
garu?as, ki?naras, and mahoragas.”
57cChapter XXV
The Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara accepted the necklace out of pity for
the fourfold assembly, devas, nagas, humans, nonhumans, and the rest. He
then divided it into two parts and gave one part to the Buddha Sakyamuni
and the other part to the stupa of the Buddha Prabhutaratna.
“O Ak?ayamati! With such inherent transcendent powers Bodhisattva
Avalokitesvara wanders throughout the saha world.”
Thereupon, Bodhisattva Ak?ayamati asked a question in verse, saying:
O Bhagavat, endowed with excellent marks!
I now wish to ask you about him once again:
For what reason is the heir of the Buddha
Named Avalokitesvara?
The Bhagavat, endowed with excellent marks, answered Ak?ayamati in
verse:
Listen to the practices of Avalokitesvara,
Which have their application to all!
His vow is deep like the ocean
And his kalpa is of inconceivable length.
After having attended
Many thousands of ko?is of buddhas,
He made a great, pure vow.
I will now explain it to you in brief:
If you hear his name and see his body,
And contemplate him in thought,
Your life will not be in vain;
And you will extinguish all suffering.
If anyone wants to hurt you
And pushes you into a great firepit,
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
The firepit will change into a pond.
If you drift upon the great ocean and meet danger
From dragons, fish, and demons,
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
You will not be swallowed by the waves.
299The Lotus Sutra
If you are on the peak of Sumeru
And are pushed by somebody,
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
You will stay suspended in the air like the sun.
If any evil one chases you
And pushes you from Mount Diamond,
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
Not even a single hair will be hurt.
If evil robbers surround you
Each with a sword and the intent to harm,
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
The thought of mercy will awaken in them.
If you suffer under the punishment of a king
And your life is to be ended by execution,
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
The sword will be immediately broken into pieces.
If you are imprisoned with a neck chain,
Your hands and feet fettered,
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
They will disappear and you will be released.
If anyone wants to hurt your body
With a curse or poison,
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
These ills will return and afflict their authors.
If you meet evil rak?asas,
Poisonous dragons, or demons,
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
They will not dare to hurt you.
If you are surrounded by evil animals
Whose teeth and claws are fearfully sharp,
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
They will run away swiftly
And to an immeasurable distance.
If there are lizards, snakes, vipers, or scorpions,
Whose breath is poisonous like a flaming smoke,
58aChapter XXV
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
They will turn away swiftly at the sound of your voice.
If thunder resounds, lightning flashes,
Hail falls, and a great rain pours out of the clouds,
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
They will disappear immediately.
If sentient beings are in great adversity,
And immeasurable pain afflicts them,
The wonderful power of the wisdom of Avalokitesvara
Can relieve the suffering of the world.
Endowed with transcendent powers
And having fully mastered wisdom and skillful means,
In all the worlds of the ten directions,
There is no place where he will not manifest himself.
The suffering of those in the troubled states of being:
Hell-dwellers, hungry ghosts, and animals;
And the suffering of birth, old age, illness, and death
Will gradually be extinguished.
He who perceives the world with truth, purity,
And vast knowledge,
And with benevolence and compassion,
Should be ever longed for and looked up to.
He is a spotless pure ray of light,
A sun of wisdom that destroys the darkness,
A flame that withstands the winds of calamity.
He brilliantly illuminates the entire world.
His will, the essence of which is compassion,
Shakes like thunder;
And the mind of mercy
Is like a beautiful overspreading cloud,
Which pours the Dharma rain of immortality
And extinguishes the flame of desires.
In a dispute before judges,
Or fearful in the midst of battle,
If you contemplate the power of Avalokitesvara,
301The Lotus Sutra
All enemies will flee away.
He has a wondrous voice,
The voice of one who perceives the world,
A voice like Brahma’s, a voice like the rolling tide,
A voice unsurpassed in this world;
For this reason you should always contemplate him.
You should have no doubt, even for a moment.
The pure seer Avalokitesvara will be a refuge
When suffering distress or the misery of death.
He is endowed with every quality,
Sees the sentient beings with his benevolent eyes,
And his ocean of merit is immeasurable;
For this reason you should pay him homage.
At that time Bodhisattva Dhara?i?dhara arose from his seat, went before
the Buddha and said to him: “O Bhagavat! If there are any sentient beings
who hear of this chapter, ‘Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara,’ and these effortless
deeds, the manifestation of the gateway to all directions, and the transcendent powers, know that their merit will not be little!”
When the Buddha taught the chapter, “The Gateway to Every Direction,” the thought of incomparable highest, complete enlightenment awoke
in eighty-four thousand sentient beings in the assembly.
58bChapter XXVI
Dhara?i
Thereupon, rising from his seat with his right shoulder bared, Bodhisattva
Bhai?ajyaraja faced the Buddha with his palms pressed together, and spoke
to him, saying: “O Bhagavat! If there is any son or daughter of a virtuous
family who preserves the Lotus Sutra and recites it, is versed in it, and copies
it, how much merit will he or she attain?”
Then the Buddha addressed Bhai?ajyaraja, saying: “If there is any son
or daughter of a virtuous family who pays homage to buddhas numbering as
many as the sands of eight hundred myriads of ko?is of nayutas of Ganges
Rivers, what do you think? Will the merit he or she attains be great or not?”
He answered: “It will be great, O Bhagavat!”
The Buddha said: “If any son or daughter of a virtuous family preserves
a verse of four lines of this sutra, recites it, understands the meaning, or practices what it teaches, his or her merit will be very great.”
Thereupon, Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja addressed the Buddha, saying:
“O Bhagavat! I will now give the dhara?is to the expounders of the Dharma
and protect them.”
He then recited a dhara?i:
Anye manye mane mamane citte carite same samita visante mukte muktatame same avisame samasame jaye k?aye ak?aye ak?i?e sante samite
dhara?i alokabha?e pratyavek?a?i nidhiru abhyantaranirvi?te
abhyantaraparisuddhi mutkule ara?e para?e suka?k?i asamasame
buddhavilokite dharmapariksite sa?gha-nirgho?anirgho?i bhaya-
bhayavisodhani mantre mantrak?ayate rute rutakausalye ak?aye ak-
?ayavanataye vakkule valo?a amanyanataye.
“O Bhagavat! This mantra-dhara?i was spoken by buddhas equal in
number to the sands of sixty-two ko?is of Ganges Rivers. Anyone who attacks
or slanders an expounder of the Dharma also attacks or slanders these
buddhas.”
58cThe Lotus Sutra
Thereupon, the Buddha Sakyamuni praised Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja,
saying: “Splendid! Splendid! O Bhai?ajyaraja! Out of compassion you have
taught this dhara?i in order to protect the expounders of the Dharma. It will
greatly benefit all sentient beings.”
Then Bodhisattva Pradanasura addressed the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! I also will teach a dhara?i in order to protect anyone who recites and
preserves the Lotus Sutra. If expounders of the Dharma attain this dhara?i,
no yak?a, rak?asa, putana, k?tya, kumbha??a, or hungry ghost will ever have
a chance to strike at their weaknesses even if they try to do so.”
In the presence of the Buddha he taught a dhara?i, saying:
Jvale mahajvale ukke mukke a?e a?avati n?tye n?tyavati i??ini vi??ini
ci??ini n?tyani n?tyavati.
“O Bhagavat! This mantra-dhara?i has been spoken by buddhas equal
in number to the sands of the Ganges River and everyone has rejoiced in it.
Anyone who attacks or slanders an expounder of the Dharma also attacks or
slanders these buddhas.”
Thereupon, the devaraja Vaisrava?a, a world-protector, addressed the
Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! I will also teach a dhara?i out of pity for sentient beings and in order to protect expounders of the Dharma.”
He then recited a dhara?i, saying:
A??e na??e vana??e ana?e na?i kuna?i.
“O Bhagavat! With this mantra-dhara?i I protect the expounders of the
Dharma; I will also protect those who hold to this sutra. All heavy cares shall
be banished for a hundred yojanas around.”
At that time the devaraja Dh?tara??ra was present in the assembly, respectfully surrounded by thousands of myriads of ko?is of nayutas of gandharvas.
He came before the Buddha together with them and addressed the Buddha
with his palms pressed together, saying: “O Bhagavat! With a mantra-dhara?i
I will also protect those who hold to the Lotus Sutra.”
He then recited the dhara?i, saying:
Aga?e ga?e gauri gandhari ca??ali mata?gi ja?guli vrusa?i agasti.
“O Bhagavat! This mantra-dhara?i was spoken by forty-two ko?is of
59aChapter XXVI
buddhas. Anyone who attacks or slanders an expounder of the Dharma also
attacks or slanders these buddhas.
“At that time there were ten rak?asis. Their names were Lamba, Vilamba, Ku?adanti, Pu?padanti, Maku?adanti, Kesini, Acala, Maladhari, Kunti,
and Sarvasattvojohari. These ten rak?asis, together with Hariti and their children and retinues, came before the Buddha and addressed him in unison,
saying: “O Bhagavat! We also want to protect those who recite and preserve
the Lotus Sutra and rid them of their heavy cares. Those who try to strike at
the expounders of the Dharma through their weaknesses shall never be able
to do so.”
They then recited a dhara?i in the presence of the Buddha, saying:
Iti me iti me iti me iti me iti me nime nime nime nime nime ruhe ruhe
ruhe ruhe stuhe stuhe stuhe stuhe stuhe.
“Let troubles come upon our heads rather than distress the expounders
of the Dharma. No yak?a, no rak?asa, no hungry ghost, no putana, no k?tya,
no vetala, no skanda, no omaraka, no apasmaraka, no yak?ak?tya, no
manu?yak?tya, no fever; no fever for one day, for two days, for three days,
for four days or even up to seven days or at any time; no one in the form of
a man, no one in the form of a woman, no one in the form of a boy, no one
in the form of a maiden, no one who may appear even in a dream, in any of
these forms shall cause them distress.”
They then spoke to the Buddha in verse, saying:
If anyone does not accept my dhara?i,
And troubles one who expounds the Dharma,
His head will be split into seven pieces
Just like a branch of the arjaka tree.
Consider the transgression of parricide,
Of pressing sesame mixed with impurities,
Of cheating people with scales;
Consider the transgression committed by Devadatta
Who divided the sangha.
Those who slander this expounder of the Dharma
Shall suffer consequences such as these.
59bThe Lotus Sutra
After having spoken these verses the rak?asis addressed the Buddha,
saying: “O Bhagavat! We also want to protect those who preserve, recite,
and practice this sutra, and cause them to live at ease, rid them of their weighty
cares, and drive out various poisons.”
The Buddha said to the rak?asis: “Splendid! Splendid! You protect those
who preserve the name of the Lotus Sutra. Your merit is immeasurable. How
much more merit is there in protecting those who perfectly preserve and
revere the sutra in various ways; such as by offering flowers, perfumes, necklaces, fragrant ointments, scented powders, burning incense, banners, canopies,
and music, or by lighting ghee lamps, oil lamps, fragrant oil lamps, lamps
of oil made from sumanas, campaka, var?ika, and utpala flowers! How much
more merit is there in offering such things in hundreds to thousands of ways!
O Kunti! You and your retinues should protect the expounders of the Dharma
in this way.”
When this chapter, “Dhara?i,” was taught, sixty-eight thousand people attained the acceptance of the nonorigination of all dharmas.
306Chapter XXVII
Ancient Accounts of
King Subhavyuha
Thereupon, the Buddha addressed the great assembly, saying: “Once upon
a time, immeasurable, limitless, inconceivable, and incalculable kalpas ago,
there was a buddha named Jaladharagarjitagho?asusvaranak?atrarajasa?-
kusumitabhijña, a Tathagata, Arhat, Completely Enlightened. His land was
called Vairocanarasmipratima??ita and the kalpa was named Priyadarsana.
There was a king practicing the teaching of the Buddha. He was called Subhavyuha, and his consort was named Vimaladatta. They had two sons. One was
named Vimalagarbha, and the other Vimalanetra. These two sons were
endowed with great transcendent power, merit, and wisdom, and practiced
the bodhisattva path for a long time. They were versed in the perfections of
giving (dana), good conduct (sila), perseverance (k?anti), effort (virya), meditation (dhyana), wisdom (prajña), and skillful means and compassion, benevolence, joy, and generosity; as well as the thirty-seven helpful ways to attain
the Dharma. Furthermore, they were also versed in the bodhisattva sama-
dhis of vimala, nak?atrarajaditya, vimalanirbhasa, vimalarupa, vimalabhasa,
ala?karasubha, and mahatejogarbha.
“Then the Buddha, wanting to guide King Subhavyuha, and out of compassion for sentient beings, taught this Lotus Sutra. At that time Prince
Vimalagarbha and Prince Vimalanetra approached their mother and addressed
her with their palms and ten fingers pressed together, saying:
We entreat you, O mother, to go before the Buddha Jaladharagarjitagho?asusvaranak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña. We shall also go before
him together with you, attend him, make offerings to him, and pay him
homage. Why is this? Because this buddha teaches the Lotus Sutra
amid the assembly of all the devas and humans. Thus we should all
listen to him.
“Their mother answered the sons, saying:
59cThe Lotus Sutra
Your father follows heresies and is deeply attached to the teachings of
the brahmans. You should go to your father to ask him to come with us.
“Vimalagarbha and Vimalanetra said to their mother with their palms
and ten fingers pressed together:
We are the children of the King of the Dharma, although we were born
in this house of wrong views.
“The mother replied to her sons, saying:
You should have compassion for your father and show him great miracles. If he sees them, his mind will certainly be purified. He will then
allow us to go before the Buddha.
“Thereafter the two sons jumped up into the air as high as seven tala
trees and, out of their love for their father, showed him various miracles. They
walked, stood, sat, and slept in the air, causing water to flow from their upper
bodies and blowing fire out of their lower bodies, causing water to flow from
their lower bodies, and blowing fire out of their upper bodies; enlarging their
bodies so that they filled the air, making them small and then enlarging them
again; disappearing in midair and instantly reappearing on the earth; entering the earth as if it were water and walking on the water as though on the
earth. By showing various marvels like these, they purified their father’s mind
and caused him to believe them. When their father saw the transcendent powers of his sons, he rejoiced a great deal at his unprecedented experience and
addressed his sons with his palms pressed together, saying:
Who is your teacher? Whose pupils are you?
“The two sons said:
O great king! The Buddha Jaladharagarjitagho?asusvaranak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña is now sitting on the seat of the Dharma under the
seven-jeweled bodhi tree and teaching the Lotus Sutra extensively to
the assembly of all the devas and humans in this world. He is our teacher.
We are his pupils.
“The father said to his sons:
60aChapter XXVII
I now also wish to see your teacher. Let me go with you!
“Thereupon, the two sons descended from the air, approached their
mother, and addressed her with their palms pressed together, saying:
Our father believed us and the thought of highest, complete enlightenment can now awaken in him. We have done the Buddha’s work for
the sake of our father. We entreat you, O mother, to allow us to renounce
household life and practice the bodhisattva path under the guidance of
that buddha.
“At that time the two sons addressed the mother in verse, wanting to
elaborate on this meaning further, saying:
We entreat you, O mother, to allow us
To renounce household life
And to become srama?as!
It is extremely difficult to meet buddhas.
We will learn by following this buddha.
It is more difficult to meet a buddha
Than to see u?umbara flowers.
It is also difficult to escape from adversity.
We entreat you to allow us
To renounce household life.
“Their mother addressed them immediately, saying:
I give my consent for you to renounce household life. What is the reason for this? It is because it is difficult to meet a buddha.
“Then the two sons addressed their parents, saying:
Splendid! O father and mother! We entreat you now to approach and
meet the Buddha Jaladharagarjitagho?asusvaranak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña and pay homage to him. Why is this? Because it is difficult to meet a buddha, just as it is to see u?umbara flowers or for a
one-eyed turtle to find the hole in a floating piece of wood. Because
of our profound merits accumulated in the past, we were born to meet
the Buddha-Dharma. For this reason our father and mother should
60bThe Lotus Sutra
allow us to renounce household life. Why is this? Because it is difficult to meet buddhas and it is also difficult to obtain an opportunity
for meeting them.
“At that time eighty-four thousand women in the palace of King Subhavyuha all became capable of preserving this Lotus Sutra. Bodhisattva Vimalanetra had already been versed in the saddharmapu??arika samadhi for a long
time and Bodhisattva Vimalagarbha had also been versed in the sarvasattvapapajahana samadhi for immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads of
ko?is of kalpas, for he wanted all sentient beings to be separated from evil
states of being. The consort of that king attained the sarvabuddhasa?giti
samadhi and the secret treasure house of the buddhas was revealed to her. In
this way the two sons inspired their father through the power of their skillful
means and caused him to have faith and pleasure in the Buddha-Dharma.
“Then King Subhavyuha together with his subjects and retinue, Queen
Vimaladatta together with her servants and retinue, and the two princes
together with forty-two thousand people came before the Buddha at the same
time. Having approached the Buddha, they bowed until their foreheads
touched his feet, then circled around him three times and sat to one side.
“At that time the Buddha expounded and taught the Buddha-Dharma for
the king’s sake, greatly benefiting and rejoicing him. Then King Subhavyuha
and his queen took off their pearl necklaces worth hundreds of thousands and
scattered them over the Buddha. In the air they transformed into a four-pillared jeweled platform. On the platform was a great jeweled bed, spread with
hundreds of thousands of myriads of heavenly clothes. The Buddha sat crosslegged upon it, emitting great rays of light. Then King Subhavyuha thought:
The Buddha’s form is marvelous, most superior in dignity, and given
perfection by the most delicate countenance.
“Thereupon the Buddha Jaladharagarjitagho?asusvaranak?atrarajasa?-
kusumitabhijña addressed the fourfold assembly, saying:
Do you see King Subhavyuha standing with his palms pressed together
in my presence? This king has become a monk in my Dharma. He will
diligently practice the Dharma that aids those on the buddha path, and
will become a buddha. He will be called Salendraraja. His land will
310Chapter XXVII
be called Vistir?avati and the kalpa Abhyudgataraja. With this buddha
Salendraraja will be innumerable bodhisattvas and sravakas. His land
will be level. Such will be his merits.
“That king immediately gave his kingdom to his younger brother. He
renounced household life and practiced the Buddha-Dharma together with
his queen, two sons, and their retinue. For a period of eighty-four thousand
years after their renunciation the king continued to make diligent efforts and
practiced the Lotus Sutra. After this he attained the sarvagu?ala?karavyuha
samadhi. He ascended instantly into the air to a height of seven tala trees
and addressed the Buddha, saying:
O Bhagavat! My two sons have done the Buddha’s work. Through
their miracles they have reformed my erring mind so that I dwell in
the Buddha-Dharma. These two sons are my good friends; they enabled
me to see the Bhagavat. It was because they wanted to nurture the roots
of good merit accumulated in my past and benefit me that they were
born in my house.
“Then the Buddha Jaladharagarjitagho?asusvaranak?atrarajasa?kusumitabhijña addressed King Subhavyuha, saying:
Exactly! Exactly! It is exactly as you have said. If the sons and daughters of a virtuous family make good friends throughout many lives,
after having planted roots of good merit, those good friends will perform the Buddha’s work, illuminating, teaching, benefiting, and gladdening them, and will cause them to enter highest, complete enlightenment. O great king! You should know that a good friend is indeed
the great spur that brings inspiration to others, causing them to meet
a buddha and the thought of highest, complete enlightenment to awaken
in them. O great king! Do you see these two sons? These two sons
have already paid homage to buddhas equal in number to the sands of
sixty-five hundred thousands of myriads of ko?is of nayutas of Ganges
Rivers, closely attended the buddhas with respect, accepted the Lotus
Sutra in their presence, and, in their compassion, caused sentient beings
with false views to dwell in right views.
60cThe Lotus Sutra
“Immediately after that, King Subhavyuha descended from the air and
addressed the Buddha, saying:
O Bhagavat! The Tathagata is extraordinary. Because he is endowed
with merits and wisdom, his topknot is brilliantly illuminated, his deep
blue eyes are long and wide, the tuft of hair between his eyebrows is
white like the bright moon, his white teeth are even and always shining, and his scarlet lips are like the bimba fruit in their beauty.
“At that time King Subhavyuha praised immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of qualities of the Buddha like these and, again, wholeheartedly addressed the Buddha with his palms pressed together, in the presence of the Tathagata, saying:
O Bhagavat! This is unprecedented. The Tathagata’s Dharma is
endowed and perfected with inconceivable subtle qualities. His teaching, integrity, and deeds are serene and comfortable. From today on
we shall never act selfishly and the wrongful thoughts of false views,
pride and anger shall never awaken in us.
“Having spoken these words he bowed to the Buddha and went away.”
The Buddha addressed the great assembly, saying: “What do you think
about this? Is King Subhavyuha someone unknown? He is none other than
this Bodhisattva Padmasri. His Queen Vimaladatta is none other than this
Vairocanarasmipratima??itadhvajaraja now in the presence of the Buddha.
Because she had compassion for King Subhavyuha and his retinue, she was
born here. These two sons are none other than Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyaraja and
Bodhisattva Bhai?ajyasamudgata. These bodhisattvas Bhai?ajyaraja and Bhai?ajyasamudgata perfected great qualities such as these and, having planted many
roots of good merit under the guidance of innumerable hundreds of thousands
of myriads of ko?is of buddhas, perfected inconceivable good merit. If anyone
holds the names of these two bodhisattvas in memory, the devas and humans
in this entire world will certainly pay homage to those bodhisattvas.”
When the Buddha taught this chapter, “Ancient Accounts of King Subhavyuha,” eighty-four thousand people removed themselves from impurity, rid
themselves of defilement, and attained pure Dharma-eyes with which to see
the teachings.
61aChapter XXVIII
Encouragement of
Bodhisattva Samantabhadra
Thereupon Bodhisattva Samantabhadra, through his effortless transcendent
power, dignity, and fame, arrived from the east together with innumerable,
limitless, and incalculable numbers of great bodhisattvas. All the lands quaked
universally wherever he passed. Jeweled lotus flowers rained down and
immeasurable hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of kinds of music
were heard. He was surrounded by a great assembly of innumerable beings:
humans and such nonhumans as devas, nagas, yak?as, gandharvas, asuras,
garu?as, ki?naras, and mahoragas, each manifesting dignity and transcendent powers. He then arrived at Mount G?dhraku?a in the saha world. He
prostrated himself before Sakyamuni Buddha and circled around him to the
right. He then addressed him, saying: “O Bhagavat! Afar in the land of the
Buddha Ratnatejo’bhyudgataraja I heard you expound the Lotus Sutra in this
saha world. I have come here to listen to you, together with the assembly of
immeasurable and limitless hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of
bodhisattvas. I entreat you, O Bhagavat, to teach us how the sons and daughters of a virtuous family may attain the Lotus Sutra after the parinirva?a of
the Tathagata.”
The Buddha said to Bodhisattva Samantabhadra: “After the parinirva?a
of the Tathagata the sons and daughters of a virtuous family will attain the
Lotus Sutra if they achieve the four necessary accomplishments: the first is
to be protected by the buddhas; the second is to plant roots of good merit;
the third is to enter a group of those who are rightly resolute; and the fourth
is to awaken the thought of saving all sentient beings. Those sons and daughters of a virtuous family will definitely attain this sutra after the parinirva?a
of the Tathagata if they perfect these four accomplishments.”
Then Bodhisattva Samantabhadra addressed the Buddha, saying: “O Bhagavat! If there are those who preserve this sutra in the troubled world of five
hundred years after, I will protect them and rid them of their heavy cares, cause
313The Lotus Sutra
them to attain happiness, and allow no one to strike at them through their weaknesses. I will not give Mara any chance to afflict them, nor the sons of Mara,
daughters of Mara, minions of Mara, those possessed by Mara, yak?as, rak?asas,
kumbha??as, pisacas, k?tyas, putanas, or vetalas. If they recite this sutra, whether
walking or standing, I will then come before them on a white elephant king
with six tusks, together with the assembly of great bodhisattvas, manifest myself,
pay homage and protect them, and console their minds for the sake of revering
the Lotus Sutra. If they sit contemplating upon this sutra, I will then manifest
myself before them on a white elephant king. If they forget a single line or a
verse in the Lotus Sutra, I will teach and recite it with them and cause them to
become proficient in it. At that time those who accept and recite the Lotus Sutra
will be able to see me and, greatly rejoicing, will thus make further efforts. As
a result of seeing me they will attain the samadhi and dhara?is named avarta
dhara?i, ko?isatasahasravarta dhara?i, and sarvarutakausalyavarta dhara?i.
They will attain dhara?is like these. O Bhagavat! In the troubled world of five
hundred years after those monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen who seek, preserve, recite, copy, and wish to practice this Lotus Sutra should persevere singlemindedly for twenty-one days. After a full twenty-one days I will appear on
a white elephant with six tusks, accompanied by innumerable bodhisattvas who
themselves will also be surrounded by their retinues, and manifest myself before
sentient beings in whatever form they wish to see. Then I will expound and
teach the Dharma to them and gladden them. I will also give them a dhara?i-
spell. When they attain this dhara?i, nonhumans will have no power to destroy
them and women no power to trouble them. I myself will also protect these
people. I entreat you, O Bhagavat, to allow me to teach this dhara?i.”
Thus he taught the spell in the presence of the Buddha, saying:
Ada??e da??apati da??avartani da??akusale da??asudhari sudhari
sudharapati buddhapasyane sarvadhara?i avartani sarvabha?ya-
vartane su-avartane sa?ghaparik?ani sa?ghanirghatani asa?ge
sa?gapa-gate t?-adhvasa?gatulyaprapte sarvasa?gasamatikrante
sarvadharmasuparik?ite sarvasattvarutakausalyanugate si?havikri?ite.
“O Bhagavat! If there is any bodhisattva who hears this dhara?i, he
should know it is because of the transcendent power of Samantabhadra. If
there is anyone who accepts the Lotus Sutra practiced in Jambudvipa, he
61b
61cChapter XXVIII
should think: ‘This is nothing but Samantabhadra’s virtuous power.’ If there
is anyone who preserves, recites, correctly remembers, understands this
meaning, and practices in accordance with the teaching, know that they are
practicing the practice of Samantabhadra. They plant deep roots of good
merit in the presence of innumerable and limitless buddhas. The Tathagatas
will caress their heads. If they copy this sutra, after their death they will be
born in the Trayastri?sa Heaven. At that time eighty-four thousand heavenly maidens will welcome them, performing various kinds of music. They
will wear seven-jeweled coronets and be happy among their female servants.
How much more for those who preserve, recite, remember correctly, understand the meaning, and practice in accordance with the teaching! If there is
anyone who preserves, recites, and understands this meaning, at the end of
their life a thousand buddhas will offer their hands, so that they will neither
be afraid nor fall into the troubled states of being. They will thus arrive in
the Tu?ita Heaven of Bodhisattva Maitreya, who is endowed with the thirtytwo marks and surrounded by an assembly of great bodhisattvas and a retinue of hundreds of thousands of myriads of ko?is of heavenly maidens. There
they will be born and such will be their merit and benefits. For this reason
the wise should wholeheartedly copy, move others to copy, preserve, recite,
and remember it correctly and practice in accordance with the teaching. O
Bhagavat! Through my transcendent powers I will now protect, extensively
distribute and keep this sutra from extermination in Jambudvipa after the
parinirva?a of the Tathagata.”
Thereupon the Buddha Sakyamuni praised him, saying: “Splendid!
Splendid! O Samantabhadra! You will protect this sutra and bring benefit
and happiness to sentient beings in many places. You have already accomplished inconceivable merits and profound compassion. Long, long ago the
thought of highest, complete enlightenment awakened in you, and you made
this vow of transcendent power: ‘I will protect this sutra. Through my transcendent powers I will protect the one who holds to the name of Bodhisattva
Samantabhadra.’ O Samantabhadra! If there is anyone who preserves, recites,
correctly remembers, practices, and copies this Lotus Sutra, they should
know that they will meet the Buddha Sakyamuni and hear this sutra from
the mouth of the Buddha. By this they should know that they are paying
homage to the Buddha Sakyamuni. They should know that they will be
62aThe Lotus Sutra
praised by the Sakyamuni Buddha with the word ‘Splendid!’ They should
know that the hand of the Buddha Sakyamuni will caress their heads. They
should know that they will be clad in the robe of the Buddha Sakyamuni.
Such people are not attached to worldly pleasures. They dislike heretical
scriptures and writings. They are not pleased to consort with heretics, wicked
people, butchers, those who keep boars, sheep, chickens, or dogs, hunters,
or those who make a living by pandering. They will be honest in mind, and
will have correct recollection and the power of merit. They will not be troubled by the three kinds of poison. Nor will they be confused by jealousy,
selfishness, false pride, or arrogance. Having little desire they can know satisfaction and practice the practice of Samantabhadra. O Samantabhadra! If
you meet anyone who preserves and recites the Lotus Sutra five hundred
years after the parinirva?a of the Tathagata, you should think like this:
This man will before long approach the terrace of enlightenment,
destroy the hosts of Mara, attain highest, complete enlightenment, turn
the wheel of the Dharma, beat the drum of the Dharma, blow the conch
of the Dharma, pour down the rain of the Dharma, and will sit on the
lion seat of the Dharma in the great assembly of devas and humans.
“O Samantabhadra! Those who preserve and recite this sutra in the future
world will not be greedy for clothes, bedding, food and drink, and the necessities of life. Their aspirations will not be unrewarded, and their happy reward
will be attained in this world. If there is anyone who despises them, saying:
‘You are mad. This practice of yours is in vain and will attain nothing at the
end,’ they will have no eyes lifetime after lifetime as a retribution for this
wrongdoing. If there is anyone who pays them homage and praises them, he
will attain tangible rewards in this world. If anyone sees those who preserve
this sutra and speaks maliciously about their faults, whether true or not, such
a person will suffer from leprosy in this life. If anyone scorns them, that person’s teeth will be either loose or missing; their lips will be ugly, their nose
will be flat, their limbs will be crooked; they will squint; their body will stink
and be dirty, suffering from evil tumors, oozing pus; their belly will swell
with water; and they will have tuberculosis and other evil and serious illnesses. For this reason, O Samantabhadra, if you see anyone who holds to
316Chapter XXVIII
this sutra, you should stand up and show your respect even from afar, just as
you would pay homage to the Buddha.”
When this chapter, “Encouragement of Bodhisattva Samantabhadra,”
was being taught, innumerable and limitless bodhisattvas equal in number
to the sands of Ganges Rivers attained hundreds of thousands of myriads of
ko?is of dhara?is named avarta, and bodhisattvas equal to the number of
atoms in the manifold cosmos mastered the path of Samantabhadra.
When the Buddha had taught this sutra, the entire great assembly of
bodhisattvas including Samantabhadra, the sravakas including Sariputra,
devas, nagas, humans, and nonhumans rejoiced greatly, accepted the Buddha’s
words, bowed to him and departed.
